_reference/2015-10-18-faq.md, before:

---
title: Carina FAQ
author: Simon J <simon.jakesch@rackspace.com>
date: 2015-10-18
permalink: docs/reference/faq/
description: Get answers to common questions about Carina
topics:
  - troubleshooting
  - docker
  - Carina
faqs:
  -
    question: I am an existing Rackspace customer. Can I use Carina with my existing account? Why won't my Rackspace account work?
    answer: |
      You can use your existing Rackspace account username (the same you use for the Cloud Control Panel) to sign into Carina. The Beta will also be free to you, just like everyone else. Please note, however, that **we don't support two-factor authentication at the moment**. To work around this, you can [create a sub-user](https://community.rackspace.com/products/f/54/t/4551).
  -
    question: I've got some feedback or questions. Where can I go for this?
    answer: |
      During the Beta period Carina is supported through [community forums](https://community.getcarina.com/) and [IRC at #carina on Freenode](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=carina).
  -
    question: I've found a bug. Where can I go to report it?
    answer: |
      We're happy to receive bug reports from you. All bugs related to Carina in general (CLI, UI, docs, back end) should be issued to [github.com/getcarina/feedback](https://github.com/getcarina/feedback/issues). If the bug is security related, refer to our [Security Vulnerability Reporting guidelines](http://www.rackspace.com/information/legal/rsdp/).
  -
    question: Can I use Carina for production workloads?
    answer: |
      We're still working hard to add new features to Carina. As a result, there may be some changes we have to make to the environment. Most changes won't impact your running clusters containers. When we move into production there will likely be major interruptions, but we will give you plenty of warning and guidance. Please treat Carina as an experimental Beta; we'll be doing our best to ensure uptime, but ultimately won't be able to guarantee it. One thing you can do to ensure that your application stays up is to start your containers with the `--restart always` option, which ensures they restart after segment or host restart.
  -
    question: What happens when a new version of Docker is released?
    answer: |
      When a new version of Docker is released, we'll test it in our environment. After testing, we'll make it available in Carina, at which point any new cluster build will use the newer version. **Running clusters won't be upgraded by default**, so you will have to redeploy your application into a new cluster to take advantage of the newer version.
  -
    question: My <code>-v /segment-dir:/container-dir</code> option doesn't seem to work. Why?
    answer: |
      Carina uses AppArmor to provide additional security to the environment. This means you'll only be allowed to bind-mount from the `/var/lib/docker` segment directory. As a result any `-v` directive should looks like this: `-v /var/lib/docker:/container-dir`.
  -
    question: I am having trouble running my container. What can I do?
    answer: |
      We've published a tutorial to [troubleshoot common problems]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/troubleshooting/common-problems/). If you continue to have problems, use our [forums and ask our community](https://community.getcarina.com).

  -
    question: How does autoscaling work in Carina?
    answer: |
      Carina currently offers simple scale-up capabilities. For details, see the [Autoscaling resources in Carina ]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/reference/autoscaling-carina/) tutorial.

  -
    question: What does the cluster rebuild action do?
    answer: |
      As explained in the ["how" section of the overview article]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/overview-of-carina/#how-does-carina-work), Carina currently relies on Swarm to manage the placement of containers. Swarm relies on management containers. If you accidentally delete these containers, your Swarm cluster won't work properly anymore. If this happens, you can use the rebuild action to re-initialize the Swarm cluster. Rebuilding will interrupt or kill your interactive container session; however, daemonized containers will continue running and remain untouched.
  -
    question: How do I rebuild a cluster?
    answer: |
      Via the GUI:
      
        1. Login to the [control panel](https://app.getcarina.com)
        2. Under the gear icon for the affected cluster, click "Edit Cluster"
        3. Under the Actions button, click "Rebuild Cluster"  

      Via the CLI:
      
        1. [Download and install the Carina CLI](https://getcarina.com/docs/getting-started/getting-started-carina-cli/#download-and-install-the-carina-cli)
        2. Run then `carina rebuild <cluster-name>` command

  -
    question: What resources does a single cluster have?
    answer: |
      All cluster segments currently have 20 GB of disk space, 4 GB of memory, and roughly the equivalent of 2 vCPUs. As a result, a single **Docker container can never grow larger than 4 GB of memory**. Clusters currently have a maximum of three segments for a total of 60 GB of disk, 16 GB of memory, and 6 vCPUs. By default, you can create a maximum of three clusters. If you have a use case that requires more resources, [please contact us](https://community.getcarina.com/t/capacity-requests/22/1). After the Beta these parameters will be configurable, but we're currently limiting them to accommodate everyone.

  -
    question: Can I get access to the underlying segment?
    answer: |
      Direct access to the underlying segment (LXC container) won't be given to users. Carina is a managed container service; we run the infrastructure so you can focus on running your application.
  -
    question: Why can't my containers talk to each other?
    answer: |
      Containers on the same segment should simply be "linked" together. To find out more, see [Connect containers with Docker links]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/connect-docker-containers-with-links/#connect-two-containers-with-a-docker-link). If your containers live on different segments you'll have to rely on the [ambassador pattern]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/connect-docker-containers-ambassador-pattern/#connect-containers).
  -
    question: When will Carina come out of Beta?
    answer: |
      We're not rushing to put Carina into production. We'd like to collect feedback and add more features as well as orchestration engines. When we have more detail on production readiness dates, we'll let you know.
  -
    question: How long will Carina be free? When you start charging, what will it cost?
    answer: |
      While Carina won't be free forever, we will continue to keep a free tier, even after we start charging. As soon as we have pricing details, we will make them public, so you can educate yourself long before we start charging. You'll be positively surprised.
  -
    question: When I run `docker info` against my cluster, there are already containers running there. Why?
    answer: |
      Docker Swarm requires an agent and manager to work. They currently run on cluster segments in the form of containers. Although only one manager is required per cluster, we've configured it to run on all segments in the cluster to add some redundancy and make communicating with the cluster easier. For more details, see the ["how" section of the overview article]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/overview-of-carina/#how-does-carina-work).
  -
    question: Is there an API for all this?
    answer: |
      Yes, we have an API, but it will change before we move into production. If you want to use it, start by using the CLI tool's code base. See [Getting Started with the Carina CLI]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/getting-started/getting-started-carina-cli/#download-and-install-carina-cli).
  -
    question: How are you currently preventing containers running in <code>--privileged</code> mode?
    answer: |
      AppArmor profiles at the compute host level deny certain capabilities and permissions that Docker needs for <code>--privileged</code>. When Docker tries to spawn a privileged container, AppArmor denies it. For more details, see [Understanding how Carina uses Docker Swarm]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/concepts/docker-swarm-carina/#apparmor-profiles).
  -
    question: What level of control do I get over segment networking? How do I allocate IP addresses?
    answer: |
      Currently Carina controls all the networking for you. Every segment is allocated a public IPv4 address, which makes connectivity easy, but should be considered when you are deploying Docker containers that expose services publicly.
  -
    question: Can I get access to the TLS certificates?
    answer: |
      All of the certificates necessary to talk to the Docker daemon or Swarm manager are on each segment. You can access them by using `--volumes-from swarm-data:ro`. You'll find them in `/etc/docker`. We don't have the local UNIX socket, but you can easily talk over a TCP socket with `--net=host`. These run arguments should set everything up.

      Talk to Swarm:

      ```
      --net=host --volumes-from swarm-data:ro -e DOCKER_HOST=tcp://127.0.0.1:2376 -e DOCKER_CERT_PATH​=/etc/docker -e DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY=1
      ```

      Talk to the local daemon:

      ```
      --net=host --volumes-from swarm-data:ro -e DOCKER_HOST=tcp://127.0.0.1:42376 -e DOCKER_CERT_PATH​=/etc/docker -e DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY=1​
      ```
---

<div class="table-of-contents">
  <h4>Contents</h4>
  <ul>
  {% for faq in page.faqs %}
    <li><a href="#{{ faq.question | slugify }}">{{ faq.question }}</a></li>
  {% endfor %}
  </ul>
</div>

{% for faq in page.faqs %}
  {% comment %}
    This is a terrible, awful, no-good band-aid to parse one jekyll variable that we know gets used a lot in the frontmatter.
  {% endcomment %}
  {% assign baseUrlVar = '{{ site.baseurl }}' %}
  <h4 id="{{ faq.question | slugify }}">{{ faq.question }}</h4>
  <div class="answer">
    {{ faq.answer | replace: baseUrlVar, site.baseurl }}
  </div>
{% endfor %}

Commit message:

Remove out-dated networking tutorials
Update existing links to the new overlay tutorial. Will add
corresponding redirects in nexus as well.

_reference/2015-10-18-faq.md, after:

---
title: Carina FAQ
author: Simon J <simon.jakesch@rackspace.com>
date: 2015-10-18
permalink: docs/reference/faq/
description: Get answers to common questions about Carina
topics:
  - troubleshooting
  - docker
  - Carina
faqs:
  -
    question: I am an existing Rackspace customer. Can I use Carina with my existing account? Why won't my Rackspace account work?
    answer: |
      You can use your existing Rackspace account username (the same you use for the Cloud Control Panel) to sign into Carina. The Beta will also be free to you, just like everyone else. Please note, however, that **we don't support two-factor authentication at the moment**. To work around this, you can [create a sub-user](https://community.rackspace.com/products/f/54/t/4551).
  -
    question: I've got some feedback or questions. Where can I go for this?
    answer: |
      During the Beta period Carina is supported through [community forums](https://community.getcarina.com/) and [IRC at #carina on Freenode](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=carina).
  -
    question: I've found a bug. Where can I go to report it?
    answer: |
      We're happy to receive bug reports from you. All bugs related to Carina in general (CLI, UI, docs, back end) should be issued to [github.com/getcarina/feedback](https://github.com/getcarina/feedback/issues). If the bug is security related, refer to our [Security Vulnerability Reporting guidelines](http://www.rackspace.com/information/legal/rsdp/).
  -
    question: Can I use Carina for production workloads?
    answer: |
      We're still working hard to add new features to Carina. As a result, there may be some changes we have to make to the environment. Most changes won't impact your running clusters containers. When we move into production there will likely be major interruptions, but we will give you plenty of warning and guidance. Please treat Carina as an experimental Beta; we'll be doing our best to ensure uptime, but ultimately won't be able to guarantee it. One thing you can do to ensure that your application stays up is to start your containers with the `--restart always` option, which ensures they restart after segment or host restart.
  -
    question: What happens when a new version of Docker is released?
    answer: |
      When a new version of Docker is released, we'll test it in our environment. After testing, we'll make it available in Carina, at which point any new cluster build will use the newer version. **Running clusters won't be upgraded by default**, so you will have to redeploy your application into a new cluster to take advantage of the newer version.
  -
    question: My <code>-v /segment-dir:/container-dir</code> option doesn't seem to work. Why?
    answer: |
      Carina uses AppArmor to provide additional security to the environment. This means you'll only be allowed to bind-mount from the `/var/lib/docker` segment directory. As a result any `-v` directive should looks like this: `-v /var/lib/docker:/container-dir`.
  -
    question: I am having trouble running my container. What can I do?
    answer: |
      We've published a tutorial to [troubleshoot common problems]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/troubleshooting/common-problems/). If you continue to have problems, use our [forums and ask our community](https://community.getcarina.com).

  -
    question: How does autoscaling work in Carina?
    answer: |
      Carina currently offers simple scale-up capabilities. For details, see the [Autoscaling resources in Carina ]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/reference/autoscaling-carina/) tutorial.

  -
    question: What does the cluster rebuild action do?
    answer: |
      As explained in the ["how" section of the overview article]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/overview-of-carina/#how-does-carina-work), Carina currently relies on Swarm to manage the placement of containers. Swarm relies on management containers. If you accidentally delete these containers, your Swarm cluster won't work properly anymore. If this happens, you can use the rebuild action to re-initialize the Swarm cluster. Rebuilding will interrupt or kill your interactive container session; however, daemonized containers will continue running and remain untouched.
  -
    question: How do I rebuild a cluster?
    answer: |
      Via the GUI:
      
        1. Login to the [control panel](https://app.getcarina.com)
        2. Under the gear icon for the affected cluster, click "Edit Cluster"
        3. Under the Actions button, click "Rebuild Cluster"  

      Via the CLI:
      
        1. [Download and install the Carina CLI](https://getcarina.com/docs/getting-started/getting-started-carina-cli/#download-and-install-the-carina-cli)
        2. Run then `carina rebuild <cluster-name>` command

  -
    question: What resources does a single cluster have?
    answer: |
      All cluster segments currently have 20 GB of disk space, 4 GB of memory, and roughly the equivalent of 2 vCPUs. As a result, a single **Docker container can never grow larger than 4 GB of memory**. Clusters currently have a maximum of three segments for a total of 60 GB of disk, 16 GB of memory, and 6 vCPUs. By default, you can create a maximum of three clusters. If you have a use case that requires more resources, [please contact us](https://community.getcarina.com/t/capacity-requests/22/1). After the Beta these parameters will be configurable, but we're currently limiting them to accommodate everyone.

  -
    question: Can I get access to the underlying segment?
    answer: |
      Direct access to the underlying segment (LXC container) won't be given to users. Carina is a managed container service; we run the infrastructure so you can focus on running your application.
  -
    question: Why can't my containers talk to each other?
    answer: |
      By default, containers are isolated and cannot "see" each other unless explicitly configured. See the [overlay networks tutorial]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/tutorials/overlay-networks/) to learn how to connect your containers.
  -
    question: When will Carina come out of Beta?
    answer: |
      We're not rushing to put Carina into production. We'd like to collect feedback and add more features as well as orchestration engines. When we have more detail on production readiness dates, we'll let you know.
  -
    question: How long will Carina be free? When you start charging, what will it cost?
    answer: |
      While Carina won't be free forever, we will continue to keep a free tier, even after we start charging. As soon as we have pricing details, we will make them public, so you can educate yourself long before we start charging. You'll be positively surprised.
  -
    question: When I run `docker info` against my cluster, there are already containers running there. Why?
    answer: |
      Docker Swarm requires an agent and manager to work. They currently run on cluster segments in the form of containers. Although only one manager is required per cluster, we've configured it to run on all segments in the cluster to add some redundancy and make communicating with the cluster easier. For more details, see the ["how" section of the overview article]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/overview-of-carina/#how-does-carina-work).
  -
    question: Is there an API for all this?
    answer: |
      Yes, we have an API, but it will change before we move into production. If you want to use it, start by using the CLI tool's code base. See [Getting Started with the Carina CLI]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/getting-started/getting-started-carina-cli/#download-and-install-carina-cli).
  -
    question: How are you currently preventing containers running in <code>--privileged</code> mode?
    answer: |
      AppArmor profiles at the compute host level deny certain capabilities and permissions that Docker needs for <code>--privileged</code>. When Docker tries to spawn a privileged container, AppArmor denies it. For more details, see [Understanding how Carina uses Docker Swarm]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/concepts/docker-swarm-carina/#apparmor-profiles).
  -
    question: What level of control do I get over segment networking? How do I allocate IP addresses?
    answer: |
      Currently Carina controls all the networking for you. Every segment is allocated a public IPv4 address, which makes connectivity easy, but should be considered when you are deploying Docker containers that expose services publicly.
  -
    question: Can I get access to the TLS certificates?
    answer: |
      All of the certificates necessary to talk to the Docker daemon or Swarm manager are on each segment. You can access them by using `--volumes-from swarm-data:ro`. You'll find them in `/etc/docker`. We don't have the local UNIX socket, but you can easily talk over a TCP socket with `--net=host`. These run arguments should set everything up.

      Talk to Swarm:

      ```
      --net=host --volumes-from swarm-data:ro -e DOCKER_HOST=tcp://127.0.0.1:2376 -e DOCKER_CERT_PATH​=/etc/docker -e DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY=1
      ```

      Talk to the local daemon:

      ```
      --net=host --volumes-from swarm-data:ro -e DOCKER_HOST=tcp://127.0.0.1:42376 -e DOCKER_CERT_PATH​=/etc/docker -e DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY=1​
      ```
---

<div class="table-of-contents">
  <h4>Contents</h4>
  <ul>
  {% for faq in page.faqs %}
    <li><a href="#{{ faq.question | slugify }}">{{ faq.question }}</a></li>
  {% endfor %}
  </ul>
</div>

{% for faq in page.faqs %}
  {% comment %}
    This is a terrible, awful, no-good band-aid to parse one jekyll variable that we know gets used a lot in the frontmatter.
  {% endcomment %}
  {% assign baseUrlVar = '{{ site.baseurl }}' %}
  <h4 id="{{ faq.question | slugify }}">{{ faq.question }}</h4>
  <div class="answer">
    {{ faq.answer | replace: baseUrlVar, site.baseurl }}
  </div>
{% endfor %}
