---
title: Image registries
author: Zack Shoylev <zack.shoylev@rackspace.com>
date: 2015-02-28
permalink: docs/reference/images/
description: Learn about Docker Images
topics:
 - docker
 - image
 - security
 - image tags

---

A Docker image is what Docker uses to start running a container. It is an immutable file archive that contains a snapshot of a container's filesystem.

### Building Images

There are different ways to build or use Docker images:

1. Base images: Docker allows you to build a base image directly from an existing, working file-system and save it in a tar archive. [Debootstrap](https://wiki.debian.org/Debootstrap) is one way to build such an image.
2. `scratch`: This is the reserved name for a minimal Docker-provided image. New images can use it as a base image and extend it. 
3. Extend existing images: Users can extend `scratch` or other base images by specifying image building operations in a Dockerfile. 

### Image Security

Some images on Docker Hub are verified and vetted by Docker. Others are not. Considering that even official Docker images have been known to contain vulnerabilities, users should be careful about what images they trust with sensitive data. If at all possible, use an official Docker image, or make your own image based on an official Docker image. Alternatively, make sure any third party image contains no unexpected or malicious code, and that the software on the image is up-to-date.

Since version 1.8+, Docker commands that download and run content do so by verifying that the content is signed. This ensures man-in-the-middle attacks and other similar attacks do not work.

Starting with Docker 1.10+, image IDs are no longer arbitrary, and are securely computed based on the file-system contents and the image configuration. Images can securely share base layers.