README.md, before:

# Rackspace Container Service

This is a [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) repo housing documentation and tutorials for Rackspace Container Service

## Installation

1. [Install Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/)
1. Clone this repository
1. From the cloned repo, run `bundle install`
1. Run `bundle exec jekyll serve --watch`
1. Navigate your web browser to the URL the command displays

Jekyll is now serving this repo as a simple website, and will re-build the site every time you save a file.

## Writing

The content is split into three separate collections: **tutorials**, **best practices**, and **references**. The individual files for these collections are in `_tutorials`, `_best-practices`, and `_references`, respectively.

Right now, file names are being prefixed with a number like `001-` to control their display order. This is not really maintainable and will probably change.

## Contact

Please contact [Keith Bartholomew](https://github.com/ktbartholomew) or submit issues to this repository for any technical questions.

Commit message:

Added a tutorial template and updated the README.

README.md, after:

# Rackspace Container Service

This is a [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) repo housing documentation and tutorials for Rackspace Container Service

## Installation

1. [Install Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/)
1. Clone this repository
1. From the cloned repo, run `bundle install`
1. Run `bundle exec jekyll serve --watch`
1. Navigate your web browser to the URL the command displays

Jekyll is now serving this repo as a simple website, and will re-build the site every time you save a file.

## Writing

The content is split into three separate collections: **tutorials**, **best practices**, and **references**. The individual files for these collections are in `_tutorials`, `_best-practices`, and `_references`, respectively.

Right now, file names are being prefixed with a number like `001-` to control their display order. This is not really maintainable and will probably change.

Use the tutorial template (`/tutorial-template.md`) for creating new tutorials.

## Contact

Please contact [Keith Bartholomew](https://github.com/ktbartholomew) or submit issues to this repository for any technical questions.
