_tutorials/000-tutorial-concept-template.md, before:

<!--
Markdown syntax: http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/
-->

# Reference name

<!--
Limit references to a single idea or concept. Choose a name that accurately describes the content. For example: 

# Docker 101
# Advanced Docker
-->

This reference describes <x> so that you can <y>.

<!--
Give a brief summary of what this reference describes and why it matters. For example:

"This tutorial describes Docker basics: what Docker is and how to start using it."
"This tutorial demonstrates how to remove containers without deleting system-critical containers."
-->

## Prerequisites

<!--
List any prerequisites. Indicate a level of mastery where possible. 

* Comfortable entering basic commands in a CLI
* Basic understanding of network protocols
* Links to other tutorials
-->

## Concepts

<!--
Present concepts in the order in which your audience will learn them most easily. Use H3 subheadings. Limit each subheading to a single concept.

For example:

### Foundational concept

Understanding this concept will help you understand the next concept.

### Next concept

Continue explaining concepts until you've adequately covered the tightly-scoped idea covered by this tutorial or reference.
-->

## Resources

<!--
* Links to related and supporting content
-->

## Next Steps

<!--
* What should your audience read next?
-->

Commit message:

Made changes based on Kelly's editorial review.

_tutorials/000-tutorial-concept-template.md, after:

<!--
Markdown syntax: http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/
-->

# Tutorial name

<!--
Limit concept-based tutorials to a single idea or concept. Choose a name that accurately describes the content. For example: 

# Docker 101
# Advanced Docker
-->

This tutorial describes *x* so that you can *y*.

<!--
Give a brief summary of what this tutorial describes and why it matters. For example:

"This tutorial describes Docker basics: what Docker is and how to start using it."
-->

## Prerequisites

<!--
List any prerequisites. Indicate a level of mastery where possible. Prerequisites might not be relevant for a concept-based tutorial.

* Comfortable entering basic commands in a CLI
* Basic understanding of network protocols
* Links to other tutorials
-->

## Concepts

<!--
Present concepts in the order in which your audience will learn them most easily. Use H3 subheadings. Limit each subheading to a single concept.

For example:

### Foundational concept

Understanding this concept will help you understand the next concept.

### Next concept

Continue explaining concepts until you've adequately covered the tightly scoped idea covered by this tutorial.
-->

## Resources

<!--
* Links to related and supporting content
-->

## Next

<!--
* What should your audience read next?
-->
