---
title: Docker 101
slug: docker-101-introduction-docker
description: Introduction to Docker, why Docker is used with Rackspace Container Services, and instructions on how to install and use Docker.
topics:
  -docker
  -beginner
  -tutorial
---

This tutorial explains the basic components of Docker and provides a starting place for installing and using Docker.

#What is Docker?

Docker is an open-source project that automates the deployment of applications into containers <!--link to Containers 101-->. It's an easy-to-use tool that allows you to interact and run your code in a lightweight and fast environment.

Using Docker offers several benefits:

* Docker uses libcontainer, which provides features such as cgroups and namespaces for process isolation. Because of this isolation, Docker containers take only seconds to launch. Furthermore, libcontainer doesn't rely only on Linux based components. It allows for Google, Microsoft, and Mac integrations, while still using Linux distributions.

* Docker uses a copy-on-write file system, which enables you to easily link containers to other containers. This feature encourages enterprise and service-oriented architectures. Although each container still runs a single application or process, linking enables you to create a series of inter-connected containers, making it easy for you to distribute, scale, and triage your own applications.

* Docker ensures that your code environment and deployment environment are consistent, reducing the risk of deployment issues.

#How does Docker work?

Docker is made up of these core concepts:

* The Docker client and daemon
* Docker images
* Docker containers

###Docker client and daemon
Docker uses a RESTful API and a command-line client called `docker`. These clients interact with the Docker daemon. The daemon is a server that automates the processes that manage containers.

Both the client and the daemon can run on the same host, as shown in the following diagram.

<!--insert Docker architecture diagram here-->

###Docker images
Containers use images similar to how servers use images. They act as the operating enviroment for your containers. You can either use images uploaded by other users onto [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/explore/) or create your own images.

In addition to using Docker Hub for shared images, you can also use it to store any images you have created. You can choose to make these images public or keep them private.

To store or share images, you need to create a Docker Hub account. Accounts are [free to sign up](https://hub.docker.com/).

###Docker containers
Unlike virtual machines, which require a full operating system (OS), hypervisor, and guest operating systems before an application can be deployed, Docker containers are lightweight because they utilize the host's OS.

Docker containers contain an image, a set of standard operations, and an execution environment. The image is your container's operating environment (for example, Ubuntu). A container can perform a set of standard operations; for example, it can be created, started, or destroyed. Lastly, the execution environment decides how the containers are deployed.

<!--diagram explaining Docker containers here-->

#Docker and Rackspace Container Service

Because Docker containers are interchangeable, when an application is deployable with containers, a host is needed in order to take your build from local to scalable. Rackspace Container Service(RCS) takes your containers and deploys them using the Rackspace Managed Cloud. Both of these services combined allow you to deploy even though most complex architectures with ease.

#Install Docker
Use the following links to install Docker on your chosen operating system.

<!--Link to "How to install Docker with Mac OS X"-->
<!--Link to "How to install Docker with Linux"-->
<!--Link to "How to install Docker with Windows"-->

#Next step
After the installation is complete, proceed to the next article [Find and pull a Docker image](docker-101-run-images).
