_tutorials/004-porting-your-application.md, before:

---
title: Port your Rails application to Rackspace Container Service
slug: port-your-rails-application
description: How to port your existing Rails application to Rackspace Container Service
topics:
  - docker
  - intermediate
---
By now you're beginning to understand Docker and how it can benefit your workflow and deployments. This tutorial walks you through porting an existing Rails application, including the Rails app itself along with PostgreSQL, Redis, and Sidekiq workers, to Docker and Rackspace Cloud Files.

### Prerequisites

This tutorial leverages the following tools:

* [Interlock](https://github.com/ehazlett/interlock) - HAProxy plug-in
* [PostgreSQL](http://www.postgresql.org/) - Standard database
* [Rackspace Cloud Files](https://mycloud.rackspace.com) - Media storage
* [Redis](http://Redis.io/) - Key-value store for Sidekiq
* [Sidekiq](http://sidekiq.org/) - Background job processor

This tutorial assumes this software and knowledge exists:

* A working Docker environment
* Existing Rails app above version 2.0 with a Gemfile
* Knowledge of Ubuntu commands and systems

### Steps

1. Create a Dockerfile.

The `Dockerfile` is an essential part of porting your application. This file tells Docker which commands to run and which packages to install to your container and builds an image. An image is a snapshot of your application's current state.

In the root directory of your Rails application, create a new file named `Dockerfile`, and then paste the following code into the file:

```ruby
FROM ruby:2.2.1
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y \
  autoconf \
  automake \
  bison \
  build-essential \
  curl \
  g++ \
  gawk \
  gcc \
  libc6-dev \
  libffi-dev \
  imagemagick \
  libgdbm-dev \
  libncurses5-dev \
  libpq-dev \
  libreadline6-dev \
  libsqlite3-dev \
  libssl-dev \
  libtool \
  libyaml-dev \
  make \
  nodejs \
  nodejs-legacy \
  npm \
  patch \
  patch \
  pkg-config \
  sqlite3 \
  vim \
  zlib1g-dev

RUN npm install -g phantomjs
RUN mkdir /myapp

WORKDIR /tmp
COPY Gemfile Gemfile
COPY Gemfile.lock Gemfile.lock
RUN bundle install

ADD . /myapp
WORKDIR /myapp

ENV POSTGRES_PASSWORD mysecretpassword
ENV POSTGRES_USER postgres

EXPOSE 80
```

2. Update the config/database.yml file.

Now that your base Docker image is ready, update your application's `RAILS_ROOT/config/database.yml` file to point to a new database host that you will create in the next steps.
Use the following to update the file:

```yaml
development: &default
  adapter: postgresql
  encoding: unicode
  database: myapp_dev
  pool: 5
  username: <%= ENV['POSTGRES_USER'] %>
  password: <%= ENV['POSTGRES_PASSWORD'] %>
  host: <%= ENV['POSTGRES_HOST'] %>

test:
  <<: *default
  database: myapp_test

production:
  <<: *default
  database: myapp_prod
```

3. Store public assets.

This example uses Rackspace's Cloud Files service to store static assets. Rails does not do a good job of serving static assets (Javascript, CSS, images) so you can leverage Rackspace's Cloud Files service to distribute our assets. *Note:* Cloud Files calls folders "containers"; these are simply a folder on a CDN; they are not Docker containers. If you already have a public container, simply locate the HTTP link as these instructions demonstrate.

1. Log in to the [Rackspace Cloud Control Panel](https://mycloud.rackspace.com/).
1. In the menu bar at the top of the window, click *Storage > Files*.
1. Click *Create Container*.
1. In the pop-up box, provide a name for the container and select *Public (Enabled CDN)* as the type. Then, click *Create Container*.
1. On the Containers page, click the gear icon next to your new container and select *View All Links*.
1. Copy the HTTP link.
1. Open the `RAILS_ROOT/config/environments/production.rb` file.
1. Add the following line to the file, substituting the example link with the link that you just copied: `config.action_controller.asset_host = "http://2167823940-238946.rackcdn.com"`

4. Build your containers.

1. Go to [http://mycluster.rackspace.com](http://mycluster.rackspace.com).
1. Create a new cluster.
1. After a moment or two, refresh the page. You should see a series of icons that you can use to download your cluster credentials.
1. Download these credentials in a clusterName.zip file.
1. Extract them to a `RAILS_ROOT/amphora` folder so that the following
script can call `amphora/docker.env`.
1. Create a script named `RAILS_ROOT/bin/launch_cluster` and add the following code to it:


```bash

# Load the Rackspace Cloud Files credentials
source amphora/docker.env

# Clean up existing containers if necessary
cleanContainers() {
  docker rm --force interlock
  docker rm --force db
  docker rm --force db_ambassador
  docker rm --force redis
  docker rm --force redis_ambassador
  docker rm --force sidekiq

  for i in {1..5}
  do
    docker rm --force web${i}
  done

}

# Build your app before deploys
buildImage(){
  docker build -t myapp .
}

# Interlock is a HAProxy plugin. It automatically adds containers to its load balancer
# if a `--hostname` is supplied when creating the container. Hostnames should be
# identical across the containers you'd like to load balance.
# The certs listed here are automatically provided in your cluster.
interlock() {
  docker run -d \
    --name interlock \
    -p 80:80 \
    --volumes-from swarm-data \
    ehazlett/interlock \
    --swarm-url $DOCKER_HOST \
    --swarm-tls-ca-cert=/etc/docker/ca.pem  \
    --swarm-tls-cert=/etc/docker/server-cert.pem \
    --swarm-tls-key=/etc/docker/server-key.pem \
    --plugin haproxy start
}

# This function creates a PostgreSQL container and an ambassador
# (read more about the ambassador pattern: https://docs.docker.com/articles/ambassador_pattern_linking)
dbCluster() {
  # Start actual DB server on one Docker host
  docker run -d \
    --name db \
    -h db \
    -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=mysecretpassword \
    postgres

  # Postgres container takes a few seconds to boot / insert defaults.
  sleep 5

  # DB ambassador
  # Then add an ambassador linked to the DB server, mapping a port to the outside world
  docker run -d \
    --link db:db \
    --name db_ambassador \
    -p 5432:5432 \
    svendowideit/ambassador
}

# This method will run your db-related rake tasks
migrate() {
  docker run \
    --rm \
    -e RAILS_ENV=production \
    -e POSTGRES_HOST=$DB_SERVER \
    myapp rake db:create db:schema:load db:migrate db:seed
}

# Much like the DB cluster, we have a Redis container and an ambassador
redisCluster() {
  docker run -d \
    --name redis \
    -p 6379 \
    -h redis \
    redis

  sleep 10

  # Redis ambassador
  docker run -d \
    --link redis:redis \
    --name redis_ambassador \
    -p 6379:6379 \
    svendowideit/ambassador
}

# Sidekiq is a background job runner for Rails. This container talks
# to the Redis ambassador container.
sidekiq() {
  docker run -d \
    --name sidekiq \
    --restart always \
    myapp bundle exec sidekiq
}

# This method boots up n number of web containers and sets the host name
# so that Interlock can add them to the load balancer.
webCluster() {
  for i in {1..5}
  do
    docker run -d \
      --name web${i} \
      -p 80 \
      -P \
      --hostname test.com \
      -e INTERLOCK_DATA='{"port": 80, "warm": true}' \
      -e POSTGRES_HOST=$DB_SERVER \
      myapp bundle exec thin start -D -e production -p 80
  done
}

# This method will precompile Asset Pipeline resources and sync them
# to Rackspace Cloud Files (using asset_sync)
syncAssets() {
  RAILS_ENV=production rake assets:precompile assets:sync
}

# Helper method to get public IP of a container
ipFor() {
   docker inspect $1 | egrep -e ".*HostIp.*[0-9]" | cut -d \" -f 4
}

# The main method. This will boot all necessary containers and clusters.
# Order is important as some functions rely on env vars to be present.
# Errors are expected for removing containers the first time as they don't yet exist.
bootstrap() {

  # cleanContainers

  buildImage

  interlock
  export INTERLOCK=$(ipFor "interlock")

  dbCluster
  export DB_SERVER=$(ipFor "db_ambassador")

  redisCluster
  export REDIS_SERVER=$(ipFor "redis_ambassador")

  sidekiq
  export SIDEKIQ=$(ipFor "sidekiq")

  migrate

  syncAssets

  webCluster
}

bootstrap
```

1. Run the following command to make the script executable: `chmod u+x RAILS_ROOT/bin/launch_cluster`
1. Run `RAILS_ROOT/bin/launch_cluster`

Building the containers may take about 15 minutes the first time because the process must build the Rails application image and update and install `apt-get` packages. Errors are expected for removing containers the first time as they don't yet exist. Here's an example of what you will see when it completes:

```
Sending build context to Docker daemon 120.8 kB
Step 0 : FROM ruby:2.2.1
2.2.1: Pulling from library/ruby
511136ea3c5a: Pull complete 
d338bb63f151: Pull complete 
65688f7c61c4: Pull complete 
...
Tasks: TOP => environment
(See full trace by running task with --trace)
Error response from daemon: Container web1 not found
Error: failed to remove containers: [web1]
26a6f467804d575ba6dbe07a09ef434f393173bc5add5f61a3ad83f49ef4f2ae
Error response from daemon: Container web2 not found
Error: failed to remove containers: [web2]
f2e8346d572337b74947deeef635cdc401e4a0972a4941a75098ae71d6932e7b
Error response from daemon: Container web3 not found
Error: failed to remove containers: [web3]
3c8ce5d987eb9a5dd5e1c3da58654e18dff83a2c9a3f9fc4f1d268ae898251c2
Error response from daemon: Container web4 not found
Error: failed to remove containers: [web4]
42cb1f3514202d24d5ac8d28c4b50dd0d4424ce5c5cf34ba86965321dc3fb8be
Error response from daemon: Container web5 not found
Error: failed to remove containers: [web5]
8233af59a1a632a0e3325bdba2a51356d0b929b35e889013469f1e095c21f10f
```

5. Source the `amphora/docker.env` locally from within the `RAILS_ROOT/amphora/` directory so that you can inspect your RCS containers: `./amphora/docker.env`

6. Add the cluster IP address to the host file on the computer where you're browsing to the cluster IP address.
1. To find your cluster IP address, run the following command: `docker inspect interlock | egrep -e ".*HostIp.*[0-9]" | cut -d \" -f 4`
1. Edit the `/etc/hosts` file to add the cluster IP address. Interlock uses the hostname to determine routing. Following is an example of the line to add:
`104.130.0.17 test.com`

7. Launch the Rails application.
After updating your `/etc/hosts` file, simply navigate to `test.com` in your browser. The Rails application should be displayed.

8. Monitor the cluster's performance.
Interlock provides a web UI for monitoring. Visit `test.com/haproxy?stats`; the username is `stats` and the password is `interlock`.

### Troubleshooting

* If you get a permissions error when running `bin/launch_cluster`, make sure you have made the script executable with a `chmod` command.
* If you get a syntax error when running `bin/launch_cluster`, ensure you have copied and pasted the entire script from above, ending with bootstrap.
* If your Rails application isn't displayed after running the migration script, check for any errors in the docker logs for each container.
* If you see a 503 Service Unavailable error when going to test.com, check the `/etc/hosts` file entry.

### Resources

* [Interlock](https://github.com/ehazlett/interlock) - HAProxy plug-in
* [PostgreSQL](http://www.postgresql.org/) - Standard database
* [Rackspace Cloud Files](https://developer.rackspace.com/docs/cloud-files/getting-started/) - Media storage
* [Redis](http://redis.io/) - Key-value store for Sidekiq
* [Sidekiq](http://sidekiq.org/) - Background job processor

### Next Steps

Try another tutorial or migrate another Rails app.

Commit message:

Adds true results of running the launch_cluster script

_tutorials/004-porting-your-application.md, after:

---
title: Port your Rails application to Rackspace Container Service
slug: port-your-rails-application
description: How to port your existing Rails application to Rackspace Container Service
topics:
  - docker
  - intermediate
---
By now you're beginning to understand Docker and how it can benefit your workflow and deployments. This tutorial walks you through porting an existing Rails application, including the Rails app itself along with PostgreSQL, Redis, and Sidekiq workers, to Docker and Rackspace Cloud Files.

### Prerequisites

This tutorial leverages the following tools:

* [Interlock](https://github.com/ehazlett/interlock) - HAProxy plug-in
* [PostgreSQL](http://www.postgresql.org/) - Standard database
* [Rackspace Cloud Files](https://mycloud.rackspace.com) - Media storage
* [Redis](http://Redis.io/) - Key-value store for Sidekiq
* [Sidekiq](http://sidekiq.org/) - Background job processor

This tutorial assumes this software and knowledge exists:

* A working Docker environment
* Existing Rails app above version 2.0 with a Gemfile
* Knowledge of Ubuntu commands and systems

### Steps

1. Create a Dockerfile.

The `Dockerfile` is an essential part of porting your application. This file tells Docker which commands to run and which packages to install to your container and builds an image. An image is a snapshot of your application's current state.

In the root directory of your Rails application, create a new file named `Dockerfile`, and then paste the following code into the file:

```ruby
FROM ruby:2.2.1
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y \
  autoconf \
  automake \
  bison \
  build-essential \
  curl \
  g++ \
  gawk \
  gcc \
  libc6-dev \
  libffi-dev \
  imagemagick \
  libgdbm-dev \
  libncurses5-dev \
  libpq-dev \
  libreadline6-dev \
  libsqlite3-dev \
  libssl-dev \
  libtool \
  libyaml-dev \
  make \
  nodejs \
  nodejs-legacy \
  npm \
  patch \
  patch \
  pkg-config \
  sqlite3 \
  vim \
  zlib1g-dev

RUN npm install -g phantomjs
RUN mkdir /myapp

WORKDIR /tmp
COPY Gemfile Gemfile
COPY Gemfile.lock Gemfile.lock
RUN bundle install

ADD . /myapp
WORKDIR /myapp

ENV POSTGRES_PASSWORD mysecretpassword
ENV POSTGRES_USER postgres

EXPOSE 80
```

2. Update the config/database.yml file.

Now that your base Docker image is ready, update your application's `RAILS_ROOT/config/database.yml` file to point to a new database host that you will create in the next steps.
Use the following to update the file:

```yaml
development: &default
  adapter: postgresql
  encoding: unicode
  database: myapp_dev
  pool: 5
  username: <%= ENV['POSTGRES_USER'] %>
  password: <%= ENV['POSTGRES_PASSWORD'] %>
  host: <%= ENV['POSTGRES_HOST'] %>

test:
  <<: *default
  database: myapp_test

production:
  <<: *default
  database: myapp_prod
```

3. Store public assets.

This example uses Rackspace's Cloud Files service to store static assets. Rails does not do a good job of serving static assets (Javascript, CSS, images) so you can leverage Rackspace's Cloud Files service to distribute our assets. *Note:* Cloud Files calls folders "containers"; these are simply a folder on a CDN; they are not Docker containers. If you already have a public container, simply locate the HTTP link as these instructions demonstrate.

1. Log in to the [Rackspace Cloud Control Panel](https://mycloud.rackspace.com/).
1. In the menu bar at the top of the window, click *Storage > Files*.
1. Click *Create Container*.
1. In the pop-up box, provide a name for the container and select *Public (Enabled CDN)* as the type. Then, click *Create Container*.
1. On the Containers page, click the gear icon next to your new container and select *View All Links*.
1. Copy the HTTP link.
1. Open the `RAILS_ROOT/config/environments/production.rb` file.
1. Add the following line to the file, substituting the example link with the link that you just copied: `config.action_controller.asset_host = "http://2167823940-238946.rackcdn.com"`

4. Build your containers.

1. Go to [http://mycluster.rackspace.com](http://mycluster.rackspace.com).
1. Create a new cluster.
1. After a moment or two, refresh the page. You should see a series of icons that you can use to download your cluster credentials.
1. Download these credentials in a clusterName.zip file.
1. Extract them to a `RAILS_ROOT/amphora` folder so that the following
script can call `amphora/docker.env`.
1. Create a script named `RAILS_ROOT/bin/launch_cluster` and add the following code to it:


```bash

# Load the Rackspace Cloud Files credentials
source amphora/docker.env

# Clean up existing containers if necessary
cleanContainers() {
  docker rm --force interlock
  docker rm --force db
  docker rm --force db_ambassador
  docker rm --force redis
  docker rm --force redis_ambassador
  docker rm --force sidekiq

  for i in {1..5}
  do
    docker rm --force web${i}
  done

}

# Build your app before deploys
buildImage(){
  docker build -t myapp .
}

# Interlock is a HAProxy plugin. It automatically adds containers to its load balancer
# if a `--hostname` is supplied when creating the container. Hostnames should be
# identical across the containers you'd like to load balance.
# The certs listed here are automatically provided in your cluster.
interlock() {
  docker run -d \
    --name interlock \
    -p 80:80 \
    --volumes-from swarm-data \
    ehazlett/interlock \
    --swarm-url $DOCKER_HOST \
    --swarm-tls-ca-cert=/etc/docker/ca.pem  \
    --swarm-tls-cert=/etc/docker/server-cert.pem \
    --swarm-tls-key=/etc/docker/server-key.pem \
    --plugin haproxy start
}

# This function creates a PostgreSQL container and an ambassador
# (read more about the ambassador pattern: https://docs.docker.com/articles/ambassador_pattern_linking)
dbCluster() {
  # Start actual DB server on one Docker host
  docker run -d \
    --name db \
    -h db \
    -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=mysecretpassword \
    postgres

  # Postgres container takes a few seconds to boot / insert defaults.
  sleep 5

  # DB ambassador
  # Then add an ambassador linked to the DB server, mapping a port to the outside world
  docker run -d \
    --link db:db \
    --name db_ambassador \
    -p 5432:5432 \
    svendowideit/ambassador
}

# This method will run your db-related rake tasks
migrate() {
  docker run \
    --rm \
    -e RAILS_ENV=production \
    -e POSTGRES_HOST=$DB_SERVER \
    myapp rake db:create db:schema:load db:migrate db:seed
}

# Much like the DB cluster, we have a Redis container and an ambassador
redisCluster() {
  docker run -d \
    --name redis \
    -p 6379 \
    -h redis \
    redis

  sleep 10

  # Redis ambassador
  docker run -d \
    --link redis:redis \
    --name redis_ambassador \
    -p 6379:6379 \
    svendowideit/ambassador
}

# Sidekiq is a background job runner for Rails. This container talks
# to the Redis ambassador container.
sidekiq() {
  docker run -d \
    --name sidekiq \
    --restart always \
    myapp bundle exec sidekiq
}

# This method boots up n number of web containers and sets the host name
# so that Interlock can add them to the load balancer.
webCluster() {
  for i in {1..5}
  do
    docker run -d \
      --name web${i} \
      -p 80 \
      -P \
      --hostname test.com \
      -e INTERLOCK_DATA='{"port": 80, "warm": true}' \
      -e POSTGRES_HOST=$DB_SERVER \
      myapp bundle exec thin start -D -e production -p 80
  done
}

# This method will precompile Asset Pipeline resources and sync them
# to Rackspace Cloud Files (using asset_sync)
syncAssets() {
  RAILS_ENV=production rake assets:precompile assets:sync
}

# Helper method to get public IP of a container
ipFor() {
   docker inspect $1 | egrep -e ".*HostIp.*[0-9]" | cut -d \" -f 4
}

# The main method. This will boot all necessary containers and clusters.
# Order is important as some functions rely on env vars to be present.
# Errors are expected for removing containers the first time as they don't yet exist.
bootstrap() {

  # cleanContainers

  buildImage

  interlock
  export INTERLOCK=$(ipFor "interlock")

  dbCluster
  export DB_SERVER=$(ipFor "db_ambassador")

  redisCluster
  export REDIS_SERVER=$(ipFor "redis_ambassador")

  sidekiq
  export SIDEKIQ=$(ipFor "sidekiq")

  migrate

  syncAssets

  webCluster
}

bootstrap
```

1. Run the following command to make the script executable: `chmod u+x RAILS_ROOT/bin/launch_cluster`
1. Run `RAILS_ROOT/bin/launch_cluster`

Building the containers may take about 15 minutes the first time because the process must build the Rails application image and update and install `apt-get` packages. Errors are expected for removing containers the first time as they don't yet exist. Here's an example of what you will see while it runs:

```
interlock
db
db_ambassador
redis
redis_ambassador
sidekiq
web1
web2
web3
web4
web5
Sending build context to Docker daemon   703 kB
Step 0 : FROM ruby:2.2.1
 ---> ef6e4b7dc7cd
...and so on...
**********************************************
Your application is available at: 104.130.0.114
Please add this to /etc/hosts with a domain
**********************************************
```

5. Source the `amphora/docker.env` locally from within the `RAILS_ROOT/amphora/` directory so that you can inspect your RCS containers: `./amphora/docker.env`

6. Add the cluster IP address to the host file on the computer where you're browsing to the cluster IP address.
1. To find your cluster IP address, run the following command: `docker inspect interlock | egrep -e ".*HostIp.*[0-9]" | cut -d \" -f 4`
1. Edit the `/etc/hosts` file to add the cluster IP address. Interlock uses the hostname to determine routing. Following is an example of the line to add:
`104.130.0.17 test.com`

7. Launch the Rails application.
After updating your `/etc/hosts` file, simply navigate to `test.com` in your browser. The Rails application should be displayed.

8. Monitor the cluster's performance.
Interlock provides a web UI for monitoring. Visit `test.com/haproxy?stats`; the username is `stats` and the password is `interlock`.

### Troubleshooting

* If you get a permissions error when running `bin/launch_cluster`, make sure you have made the script executable with a `chmod` command.
* If you get a syntax error when running `bin/launch_cluster`, ensure you have copied and pasted the entire script from above, ending with bootstrap.
* If your Rails application isn't displayed after running the migration script, check for any errors in the docker logs for each container.
* If you see a 503 Service Unavailable error when going to test.com, check the `/etc/hosts` file entry.

### Resources

* [Interlock](https://github.com/ehazlett/interlock) - HAProxy plug-in
* [PostgreSQL](http://www.postgresql.org/) - Standard database
* [Rackspace Cloud Files](https://developer.rackspace.com/docs/cloud-files/getting-started/) - Media storage
* [Redis](http://redis.io/) - Key-value store for Sidekiq
* [Sidekiq](http://sidekiq.org/) - Background job processor

### Next Steps

Try another tutorial or migrate another Rails app.
