---
title: Introduction to RCS
author: Constanze Kratel <constanze.kratel@rackspace.com>
date: 2015-10-03
permalink: docs/tutorials/intro-to-rcs/
description: How to get started with Rackspace Container Service
docker-versions:
  - 1.8.2
topics:
  - docker
  - beginner
---

#Before you get started
Before you get started with Rackspace Container Service, you should do the following:

* Watch the [Introduction to Docker](https://sysadmincasts.com/episodes/31-introduction-to-docker) video. 
* Ensure that your Rackspace Cloud account is enabled for Rackspace Container Services.
* Familiarize yourself with basic Docker concepts. Read the [Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com/
).
* Familiarize yourself with the basic container concepts. Read the [Containers 101](add_link) document.
* Familiarize yourself with [scheduling strategies](https://docs.docker.com/swarm/scheduler/strategy/) and with [filters](https://docs.docker.com/swarm/scheduler/filter/).
* Learn about the resources and resource limitations of a cluster.
* Install the Docker client on your computer. For installation instructions, see the [Install the Docker client] (link_Install_Docker_Client) section.
* If you already have the Docker client installed, ensure that you have the right version. Rackspace Container Service, currently supports Docker version 1.8.2. 

#What is Rackspace Container Service?
**Rackspace Container Service** helps you get a quick start with Docker and containers. RCS has been designed to make running and managing containers easier for you. It does so by focusing on the essentials: fast provisioning times, bare-metal performance, and an easy-to-use user interface. Rackspace Container Service provides the following benefits for users:

* Provides an infrastructure for cluster management.
* Manages the scaling of your pool of Docker nodes. 
* Enables you to utilize all the benefits of containers (packaging and performance).
* Supports new use-cases with extremely dynamic application lifecycles.
* Enables you to quickly go from zero to a running application. 
 
Rackspace Container Service has its foundations in OpenStack and utilizes the existing Linux Container (LXC) support in Nova. 
Rackspace has configured Docker to run inside these containers.

The following diagram outlines how the Rackspace Container Service works.
<show diagram here>


#Getting Started

##Create a cluster
After you have successfully installed Docker, you are ready to create your first cluster.

To create your first cluster

1. Go to [http://mycluster.rackspacecloud.com](http://mycluster.rackspacecloud.com) and sign into Rackspace Container Service by using your Rackspace cloud account credentials.
2. In the **Create New** box type a name for your cluster and click **Create Cluster**. The new cluster will enter the *building* state. If you want to track the cluster’s state, refresh the cluster list manually after a few minutes. Once the cluster is *active*, you can interact with it.

**Note** A cluster can be in one of the following states: *building*, *active*, *growing*

##Retrieve your cluster credentials
After you have created your cluster and it is in active state, you need to connect to it. Connection authorization for clusters is established using TLS certificates. 
Before you can connect to your cluster, you need to download these credentials and to tell the client to use them.

To download your cluster credentials:

1. Click the download credentials icon.
2. Save the <cluster_name>.zip file to a location on your computer.
2. Extract the zipped credential folder by typing ```unzip {.zip-file-name}-d {/directory/to/extract}``` at a command-line interface.
3. Navigate to the extracted credential folder. Note that the name of the extracted folder is a multi-digit id that has been auto-generated by Rackspace Container Serve. 
4. Point your Docker client to use the contents of the folder by typing ```source docker.env```. 
5. Run the ```docker info``` command.

If everything worked, running docker info should now display your RCS cluster details.


##Deploy your first workload
Now that you have assembled all the required ingredients, you can deploy your first workload.
For example you can deploy a simple Wordpress blog with a MySQL database. 
To do this, run the following two commands:
  
```	
# start mysql, name it my-wordpress and use my-root-pw as a password
# more details at: https://registry.hub.docker.com/_/mysql/
docker run --name mysql-db -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=my-root-pw -d mysql

# start wordpress, name it my-wordpress, map internal port 80 to external port 8080
# the container will get the db root password from the docker daemon
# more details at: https://registry.hub.docker.com/_/wordpress/
docker run --name my-wordpress --link mysql-db:mysql -p 8080:80 -d wordpress

```

##Best Practices##

###Requirements and Restrictions###

Rackspace Container Services currently does not support two-factor authentication. 
As a workaround you can create a sub-user by following the instructions described in [How do i create a new user in the Cloud Control Panel](https://community.rackspace.com/products/f/54/t/4551)

#Next#
Using MySQL with RC
<add other links>






