_tutorials/2015-10-24-data-stores-mysql.md, before:

---
title: Use MySQL on Carina
author: Everett Toews <everett.toews@rackspace.com>
date: 2015-10-24
permalink: docs/tutorials/data-stores-mysql/
description: Learn how to use MySQL on Carina
docker-versions:
  - 1.10.1
topics:
  - docker
  - intermediate
  - data-stores
  - mysql
---

This tutorial describes using MySQL on Carina so that you can store data in a container.

### Prerequisite

[Create and connect to a cluster]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/create-connect-cluster/)

### Create a network

Use the `docker network create` command to create an overlay network.

```bash
$ docker network create mynetwork
501e123b2904757fe9fe23cb60e64191f3764c6d42e188cb3ba7ad30d845f84b
```

The output of this command is the network ID.

### Run a MySQL instance

Run a MySQL instance to store your application data.

1. Export the necessary environment variables for your application.

    ```bash
    $ export MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=root-password
    $ export MYSQL_DATABASE=guestbook
    $ export MYSQL_USER=guestbook-user
    $ export MYSQL_PASSWORD=guestbook-user-password
    ```

1. Run a MySQL instance in a container from an official image.

    ```bash
    $ docker run --detach \
      --name mysql \
      --net mynetwork \
      --env MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=$MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD \
      --env MYSQL_DATABASE=$MYSQL_DATABASE \
      --env MYSQL_USER=$MYSQL_USER \
      --env MYSQL_PASSWORD=$MYSQL_PASSWORD \
      mysql:5.6
    0a45d95acc3ccc7ebcaa2851ce36cbe0bba864282d6dbadb4a4bf569f4c141e8
    ```

    The output of this `docker run` command is your running MySQL container ID.

1. View the status of the container by using the `--latest` parameter.

    ```bash
    $ docker ps --latest
    CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND                  CREATED             STATUS              PORTS               NAMES
    1582cfff7129        mysql:5.6           "/entrypoint.sh mysql"   22 seconds ago      Up 22 seconds       3306/tcp            fc6b9aa0-87fc-41b8-a421-21d1bb8469f0-n3/mysql
    ```

    The output of this `docker ps` command is your running MySQL container.

    The status of the container should begin with Up. If it doesn't, see the [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section at the end of the tutorial.

### Create the database tables

Create the database tables to store your application data.

1. Export the necessary environment variables for your application.

    ```bash
    $ export MYSQL_HOST=mysql
    $ export MYSQL_PORT=3306
    ```

1. Create the database tables.

    ```bash
    $ docker run --rm \
      --net mynetwork \
      --env MYSQL_HOST=$MYSQL_HOST \
      --env MYSQL_PORT=$MYSQL_PORT \
      --env MYSQL_DATABASE=$MYSQL_DATABASE \
      --env MYSQL_USER=$MYSQL_USER \
      --env MYSQL_PASSWORD=$MYSQL_PASSWORD \
      carinamarina/guestbook-mysql \
      python app.py create_tables
    INFO: Welcome to Guestbook: MySQL Edition
    DEBUG: The log statement below is for educational purposes only. Do not log credentials.
    DEBUG: mysql+pymysql://guestbook-user:guestbook-user-password@mysql:3306/guestbook
    2015-10-16 20:01:52,337 INFO sqlalchemy.engine.base.Engine SHOW VARIABLES LIKE 'sql_mode'
    INFO: SHOW VARIABLES LIKE 'sql_mode'
    2015-10-16 20:01:52,337 INFO sqlalchemy.engine.base.Engine ()
    ...
    INFO:
    CREATE TABLE guests (
      id INTEGER NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
      name VARCHAR(256) NOT NULL,
      PRIMARY KEY (id)
    )
    ...
    INFO: COMMIT
    ```

    The output of this `docker run` command is the result of creating the tables.

### Run the application

Run the Guestbook web application and view it in your web browser.

1. Run a container from the image. The application code uses the environment variables to connect to the MySQL container. See [app.py](https://github.com/getcarina/examples/blob/master/guestbook-mysql/app.py).

    ```bash
    $ docker run --detach \
      --name guestbook \
      --net mynetwork \
      --env MYSQL_HOST=$MYSQL_HOST \
      --env MYSQL_PORT=$MYSQL_PORT \
      --env MYSQL_DATABASE=$MYSQL_DATABASE \
      --env MYSQL_USER=$MYSQL_USER \
      --env MYSQL_PASSWORD=$MYSQL_PASSWORD \
      --publish 5000:5000 \
      carinamarina/guestbook-mysql
    3e731021acbeef0a1fdff85dc7b026e18cef51f6e3da49f8920cf5f8bbdef4d0
    ```

    The output of this `docker run` command is your running application container ID.

1. View the application logs as they contain some information based on the environment variables.

    ```bash
    $ docker logs guestbook
    INFO: Welcome to Guestbook: MySQL Edition
    DEBUG: The log statement below is for educational purposes only. Do not log credentials.
    DEBUG: mysql+pymysql://guestbook-user:guestbook-user-password@mysql:3306/guestbook
    INFO:  * Running on http://0.0.0.0:5000/ (Press CTRL+C to quit)
    ```

    The output of this `docker logs` command are the log messages being logged to stdout and stderr from the application in the container.

1. Open a browser and visit your application by running the following command and pasting the result into your browser address bar.

    ```bash
    $ echo http://$(docker port guestbook 5000)
    http://104.130.0.111:5000
    ```

    The output of this `docker port` command is the IP address and port that the application is using.

    Have `\o/` and `¯\_(ツ)_/¯` sign your MySQL Guestbook.

1. Remove the containers

    ```bash
    $ docker rm --force --volumes mysql guestbook
    mysql
    guestbook
    ```

    The output of this `docker rm` command are the shortened IDs of the MySQL and application containers that you removed.

    When the container is gone, so is your data.

### Troubleshooting

If the status of the container does not begin with Up, run a new MySQL container, and open a shell so you can use the `mysql` command to investigate your MySQL instance.

```bash
$ docker run --interactive --tty --rm mysql:5.6 /bin/bash
```

See [Troubleshooting common problems]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/troubleshooting/common-problems/).

For additional assistance, ask the [community](https://community.getcarina.com/) for help or join us in IRC at [#carina on Freenode](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=carina).

### Resources

* [The MySQL Command-Line Tool](http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/mysql.html)
* [Use overlay networks in Carina]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/overlay-networks/)

### Next steps

If you want to run your application with a production-grade database, read [Connect a Carina container to a Rackspace Cloud Database]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/data-stores-mysql-prod/).

If you want to store your data in a data volume container, read [Use data volume containers]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/data-volume-containers/).

If MySQL isn't the data store for you, read [Use MongoDB on Carina]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/data-stores-mongodb/).

Commit message:

Improve linking to backup and cron tutorials

_tutorials/2015-10-24-data-stores-mysql.md, after:

---
title: Use MySQL on Carina
author: Everett Toews <everett.toews@rackspace.com>
date: 2015-10-24
permalink: docs/tutorials/data-stores-mysql/
description: Learn how to use MySQL on Carina
docker-versions:
  - 1.10.1
topics:
  - docker
  - intermediate
  - data-stores
  - mysql
---

This tutorial describes using MySQL on Carina so that you can store data in a container.

### Prerequisite

[Create and connect to a cluster]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/create-connect-cluster/)

### Create a network

Use the `docker network create` command to create an overlay network.

```bash
$ docker network create mynetwork
501e123b2904757fe9fe23cb60e64191f3764c6d42e188cb3ba7ad30d845f84b
```

The output of this command is the network ID.

### Run a MySQL instance

Run a MySQL instance to store your application data.

1. Export the necessary environment variables for your application.

    ```bash
    $ export MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=root-password
    $ export MYSQL_DATABASE=guestbook
    $ export MYSQL_USER=guestbook-user
    $ export MYSQL_PASSWORD=guestbook-user-password
    ```

1. Run a MySQL instance in a container from an official image.

    ```bash
    $ docker run --detach \
      --name mysql \
      --net mynetwork \
      --env MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=$MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD \
      --env MYSQL_DATABASE=$MYSQL_DATABASE \
      --env MYSQL_USER=$MYSQL_USER \
      --env MYSQL_PASSWORD=$MYSQL_PASSWORD \
      mysql:5.6
    0a45d95acc3ccc7ebcaa2851ce36cbe0bba864282d6dbadb4a4bf569f4c141e8
    ```

    The output of this `docker run` command is your running MySQL container ID.

1. View the status of the container by using the `--latest` parameter.

    ```bash
    $ docker ps --latest
    CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND                  CREATED             STATUS              PORTS               NAMES
    1582cfff7129        mysql:5.6           "/entrypoint.sh mysql"   22 seconds ago      Up 22 seconds       3306/tcp            fc6b9aa0-87fc-41b8-a421-21d1bb8469f0-n3/mysql
    ```

    The output of this `docker ps` command is your running MySQL container.

    The status of the container should begin with Up. If it doesn't, see the [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section at the end of the tutorial.

### Create the database tables

Create the database tables to store your application data.

1. Export the necessary environment variables for your application.

    ```bash
    $ export MYSQL_HOST=mysql
    $ export MYSQL_PORT=3306
    ```

1. Create the database tables.

    ```bash
    $ docker run --rm \
      --net mynetwork \
      --env MYSQL_HOST=$MYSQL_HOST \
      --env MYSQL_PORT=$MYSQL_PORT \
      --env MYSQL_DATABASE=$MYSQL_DATABASE \
      --env MYSQL_USER=$MYSQL_USER \
      --env MYSQL_PASSWORD=$MYSQL_PASSWORD \
      carinamarina/guestbook-mysql \
      python app.py create_tables
    INFO: Welcome to Guestbook: MySQL Edition
    DEBUG: The log statement below is for educational purposes only. Do not log credentials.
    DEBUG: mysql+pymysql://guestbook-user:guestbook-user-password@mysql:3306/guestbook
    2015-10-16 20:01:52,337 INFO sqlalchemy.engine.base.Engine SHOW VARIABLES LIKE 'sql_mode'
    INFO: SHOW VARIABLES LIKE 'sql_mode'
    2015-10-16 20:01:52,337 INFO sqlalchemy.engine.base.Engine ()
    ...
    INFO:
    CREATE TABLE guests (
      id INTEGER NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
      name VARCHAR(256) NOT NULL,
      PRIMARY KEY (id)
    )
    ...
    INFO: COMMIT
    ```

    The output of this `docker run` command is the result of creating the tables.

### Run the application

Run the Guestbook web application and view it in your web browser.

1. Run a container from the image. The application code uses the environment variables to connect to the MySQL container. See [app.py](https://github.com/getcarina/examples/blob/master/guestbook-mysql/app.py).

    ```bash
    $ docker run --detach \
      --name guestbook \
      --net mynetwork \
      --env MYSQL_HOST=$MYSQL_HOST \
      --env MYSQL_PORT=$MYSQL_PORT \
      --env MYSQL_DATABASE=$MYSQL_DATABASE \
      --env MYSQL_USER=$MYSQL_USER \
      --env MYSQL_PASSWORD=$MYSQL_PASSWORD \
      --publish 5000:5000 \
      carinamarina/guestbook-mysql
    3e731021acbeef0a1fdff85dc7b026e18cef51f6e3da49f8920cf5f8bbdef4d0
    ```

    The output of this `docker run` command is your running application container ID.

1. View the application logs as they contain some information based on the environment variables.

    ```bash
    $ docker logs guestbook
    INFO: Welcome to Guestbook: MySQL Edition
    DEBUG: The log statement below is for educational purposes only. Do not log credentials.
    DEBUG: mysql+pymysql://guestbook-user:guestbook-user-password@mysql:3306/guestbook
    INFO:  * Running on http://0.0.0.0:5000/ (Press CTRL+C to quit)
    ```

    The output of this `docker logs` command are the log messages being logged to stdout and stderr from the application in the container.

1. Open a browser and visit your application by running the following command and pasting the result into your browser address bar.

    ```bash
    $ echo http://$(docker port guestbook 5000)
    http://104.130.0.111:5000
    ```

    The output of this `docker port` command is the IP address and port that the application is using.

    Have `\o/` and `¯\_(ツ)_/¯` sign your MySQL Guestbook.

1. Remove the containers

    ```bash
    $ docker rm --force --volumes mysql guestbook
    mysql
    guestbook
    ```

    The output of this `docker rm` command are the shortened IDs of the MySQL and application containers that you removed.

    When the container is gone, so is your data.

### Troubleshooting

If the status of the container does not begin with Up, run a new MySQL container, and open a shell so you can use the `mysql` command to investigate your MySQL instance.

```bash
$ docker run --interactive --tty --rm mysql:5.6 /bin/bash
```

See [Troubleshooting common problems]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/troubleshooting/common-problems/).

For additional assistance, ask the [community](https://community.getcarina.com/) for help or join us in IRC at [#carina on Freenode](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=carina).

### Resources

* [The MySQL Command-Line Tool](http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/mysql.html)
* [Use overlay networks in Carina]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/overlay-networks/)

### Next steps

Learn how to [back up and restore container data]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/backup-restore-data/), and [schedule tasks with a cron container]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/schedule-tasks-cron/)

If you want to run your application with a production-grade database, read [Connect a Carina container to a Rackspace Cloud Database]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/data-stores-mysql-prod/).

If you want to store your data in a data volume container, read [Use data volume containers]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/data-volume-containers/).

If MySQL isn't the data store for you, read [Use MongoDB on Carina]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/data-stores-mongodb/).
