---
title: Set up push-based continuous deployment on Docker
author: Jamie Hannaford <jamie.hannaford@rackspace.com>
date: 2016-04-18
permalink: docs/tutorials/push-based-cd/
description: Learn how to set up push-based continuous deployment for your containers on Docker Swarm, using Docker Hub webhooks to automatically re-provision applications using new images.
docker-versions:
  - 1.10.2
  - 1.11.0
topics:
  - docker
  - deployment
---
Continuous Deployment is the process of updating running applications to use
newer versions in an automatic way. Through automation the risk of human error
is minimised because manual participation replaced by a formalised release
process that is predictable and safer. While there exists solutions for
continuous deployment on traditional servers and virtual machines, there
doesn't seem to be many established solutions in the container landscape yet.

In this tutorial you will set up an environment for continuous deployment.
After finishing, you will have set up Docker Hub webhooks for your application
images, deployed a container that monitors those Docker Hub webhooks, and
seen for yourself how a group of applications can be restarted in production.

## Set up custom Docker image

The first step is to ensure you have a git repository hosted either on GitHub or
Bitbucket. This is where your application codebase will be stored, as well as
the Dockerfile which specifies how your application is packaged in its
environment.

If you already have a codebase and Dockerfile in Github or Bitbucket, please
go straight to [Set up Automated builds(#set-up-automated-builds).

If not, you will now create a test application and push it to GitHub. In order
to keep this tutorial simple, we will use a minimal Dockerfile that extends
the base Python 3 Docker image and runs a Flask app. Later we will add more
logic to simulate codebase/feature changes and then release it.

Go to the [Carina examples repository](https://github.com/getcarina/examples)
and fork it. If you are unsure how to do this, consult [GitHub's documentation](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/).

## Set up Automated Builds

An Automated Build allows you to build your Docker images automatically from a
build context stored in a repository. A build context is a Dockerfile and any
files at a specific location. Automated Builds are supported for both public and
private Docker Hub repositories on both GitHub and Bitbucket.

To set up an Automated Build, follow these steps:

1. Sign into Docker Hub
2. Click on the "Create" dropdown link in the top right corner. It will be to
   the left of your username.
3. Click on "Create Automated Build"
4. Click on the "Create Auto-build GitHub" button
5. Select your GitHub username from the left column and the name of your
   repository from the right column
6. Specify ``test-app`` as the Image name, add a short description, and click
   the "Create" button
7. Go to Build Settings
8. In the master branch row, specify ``/hello-world-app`` for the Dockerfile
   location. Click "Save Changes"

## Deploy applications

You now need to deploy your application of choice. If you have an existing
codebase which you want to deploy, you will need to handle this step by
yourself, since you are already aware of how to run and deploy it.

If you forked the Carina Examples repository in the first step, you can
deploy the Flask app by using the following commands:

```
$ docker run --detach --name app1 --publish 8001:5000 <dockerHubUsername>/test-app
$ docker run --detach --name app2 --publish 8002:5000 <dockerHubUsername>/test-app
```

Be sure to replace `<dockerHubUsername>` with your Docker Hub username.

## Run wiretap

The next step is to deploy wiretap, a web server that listens out for Docker Hub
notifications and re-deploys containers once their underlying image is updated.

First, generate a secret:

```
$ export SECRET=$(openssl rand -base64 30)
```

This value will be required for wiretap to accept the incoming request. This prevents
abuse and provides a basic level of authorization. Now deploy the container itself:

```
$ docker run --detach \
  --name wiretap \
  --publish 8000:8000 \
  --volumes-from swarm-data \
  --env HOOK=$SECRET \
  --env DOCKER_CERT_PATH=/etc/docker/cert.pem \
  --env DOCKER_CA_CERT_PATH=/etc/docker/ca.pem \
  --env DOCKER_KEY_PATH=/etc/docker/key.pem \
  carina/wiretap
```

Finally, save the webhook URL for your wiretap container:

```
$ export WEBHOOK_URL=http://$(docker port wiretap 8000)/listen?token=$SECRET
$ echo $WEBHOOK_URL
http://1.2.3.4:8000/listen?token=Y4eNUiPzO4NRX5d35R6tkUokd6FFY1EbWVW1Ad39
```

## Set up the Docker Hub webhook

1. Go to the Webhooks page for your image on Docker Hub
2. Click on the button underneath "Create a Webhook"
3. Specify ``wiretap`` for the Webhook name, and paste the value of
   ``$WEBHOOK_URL`` from the previous step as the Webhook URL
4. Click "Save"

## Push code changes to Github

If you are running your own custom application, now is the time to commit
new functionality and push to your upstream VCS repository's master branch.

Otherwise, in order to simulate a new feature being released, you will add a
new API operation to your Flask app. The new operation will allow users to
perform a GET request to query the latest API version.

To check that it's not currently implemented, run cURL to ensure you get back
a 404:

```
$ curl $(docker port app1 5000)/version
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 3.2 Final//EN">
<title>404 Not Found</title>
<h1>Not Found</h1>
<p>The requested URL was not found on the server.  If you entered the URL manually please check your spelling and try again.</p>
```

Check out your Flask application, if you haven't already:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/getcarina/examples
$ cd hello-world-app
```

Next you will add the following to the ``app.py`` file, below the current
``hello`` method (around line 11):

```python
@app.route('/version')
def version():
    return '1.1'
```

Finally, commit the change and push to your master branch:

```
$ git commit -m "Adds versioning" app.py
$ git push -u origin master
```

## Test changes

Docker Hub will be notified of your push to GitHub and will build a new
Docker Image for your application automatically. Once this build is finished,
it will notify wiretap of the changes, allowing it to redeploy any
containers running the specified image.

You can see this process at work by viewing wiretap's logs:

```
$ docker logs -f wiretap
time="2016-04-19T10:55:50Z" level=info msg="Pulling newer image" Image="jamiehannaford/test-app"
time="2016-04-19T10:56:23Z" level=info msg="Killing container" ID=80e3bd1d15fb3512980e52343b8a581f79c074ef77f3b1289b2c1f8917dbc00b Name=app1 Signal=SIGTERM
time="2016-04-19T10:56:24Z" level=info msg="Removing container" ID=80e3bd1d15fb3512980e52343b8a581f79c074ef77f3b1289b2c1f8917dbc00b
time="2016-04-19T10:56:25Z" level=info msg="New container created" ID=7d044a8c7459a54a634e5c47785dbf4fb15a3b9726530c5f26c766a73047ce4d Name=app1
time="2016-04-19T10:56:25Z" level=info msg="Pulling newer image" Image="jamiehannaford/test-app"
time="2016-04-19T10:56:26Z" level=info msg="Killing container" ID=9cb725e79bd0e164c6f99d481c80684c910610f504cf165a0291bd141485c259 Name=app2 Signal=SIGTERM
time="2016-04-19T10:56:27Z" level=info msg="Removing container" ID=9cb725e79bd0e164c6f99d481c80684c910610f504cf165a0291bd141485c259
time="2016-04-19T10:56:27Z" level=info msg="New container created" ID=cef70e8101b3303f35af885532ffac7a83805389dc2b55452fb9c26f0c091333 Name=app2
```

We can see that wiretap has been notified and has successfully shut down our two applications
and redeployed them using a new image. To test that our new feature is live, we can run
cURL again:

```
$ curl "$(docker port app1 5000)/version"
1.1
```

Bingo! Our feature has been released using Automated Builds and continuous deployment. This will
happen for every new feature or bug fix in the future - just by pushing to GitHub or Bitbucket.
