_tutorials/data-stores-redis.md, before:

---
title: Use Redis on Carina
author: Bill Anderson <bill.anderson@rackspace.com>
date: 2015-11-23
permalink: docs/tutorials/data-stores-redis/
description: Learn how to use Redis on Carina
docker-versions:
  - 1.9.0
topics:
  - docker
  - intermediate
  - data-stores
  - redis
---

This tutorial describes using Redis on Carina so you can store data in a container.

### Prerequisite

[Create and connect to a cluster](/docs/tutorials/create-connect-cluster/)


### A Primer on Redis Security

Redis is intended and designed to run on a secure intranet. As a result it does
not have certain features you might expect such as SSL or a User system. Redis
uses a single password or token to provide minimal authenticated access. As
there are no users there are no permissions other than you have access
or you do not. Best practice is to always use a password which you can
set either in the config file or via the command line. 

For SSL you have to run a proxy service such as Nginx or Stunnel. It
also requires you to use a client library which has added SSL support.
Running a Redis container with an SSL proxy means writing your own
Dockerfile to add an additional service as well as your generated SSL
certificates, and will be out of scope for this tutorial.

A final, if somewhat more drastic, step you can take is to rename certain
commands such as `CONFIG`. This is at it's core security through obscurity but
in a plain-text protocol with minimal authentication support it is an option to
consider. Note that tools such as Sentinel and the Jedis client library for
Java don't play well with renaming commands. For more information about
security and Redis check out the [The Redis Security
Guide](http://redis.io/topics/security)

### Run a Redis instance

Run a Redis instance to store your application data.


1. Run a Redis instance in a container from an official image using a
   password via the command line.

    ```bash
    $ docker run --detach --publish-all -m 1G redis \
	  redis-server --requirepass mysecretpassword \
	  --maxmemory 800M
    ```

	This `docker run` command will output the ID of your running Redis container.
	The `-m 1G` option specifies a reserved memory of 1GB. With Redis all data
	is in memory so you'll want to reserve some meory for the contaier and
	folow it up with a `maxmemory` setting to limit Redis' data memory
	allocation. In this case we selected 800Mb as the maxmemory value for Redis
	to provide 800M of data+client buffer space and 200M for Redis persistence
	requirements.

	Note that while you can change the password via the API, restarting the
	container will reset it to the password specified in the command line. If
	you want to manage the password via the API you can choose to not set one
	at the command line and then *immediately* set one via the API.

1. View the status of the container by using the `--latest` parameter.

    ```bash
    $ docker ps --latest
	CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND CREATED             STATUS              PORTS NAMES
	559d211c4cb1        redis               "/entrypoint.sh redis"   16 seconds ago      Up 6 seconds        172.99.78.231:32768->6379/tcp 7ffed4c5-fdcb-473d-8740-f133804b39a4-n1/amazing_mayer
    ```
    
	The status of the container should begin with Up. If it doesn't, see
	the [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section at the end of the
	tutorial.

1. View the ID of the container by using the `--quiet` parameter, store
   it in an environment variable for later use.

    ```bash
    $ REDCON=$(docker ps --quiet --latest)
	$ echo $REDCON
    54182185355c
    ```

	The output of this `docker ps` command is the shortened ID of the
	Redis container, we stored it in $REDCON for later use and echoed it out.

1. Discover what IP address and port Redis is running on by combining the `docker port` command, the ID of the container, and the default Redis port of 6379.

    ```bash
    $ docker port $REDCON 6379
    172.99.78.231:32769
    ```

	For the containerized Redis service, you don't need to keep track of
	what it's named, what IP address it runs on, or what port it uses.
	Instead, you discover this information dynamically with the
	preceding command, and use it later in the tutorial to connect to
	Redis. 
	
	To make this easier to use with `redis-cli` let us create a
	few more environment variables. We will user REDIS_HOST for the IP and
	REDIS_PORT for the port.

    ```bash
    $ REDIS_HOST=$(docker inspect --format '{{ (index (index .NetworkSettings.Ports "6379/tcp") 0).HostIp }}' $REDCON)
    $ REDIS_PORT=$(docker inspect --format '{{ (index (index .NetworkSettings.Ports "6379/tcp") 0).HostPort }}' $REDCON)
    $ echo $REDIS_HOST:$REDIS_PORT
    172.99.78.231:32769
    ```

	Now let us test our connection.

    ```bash
	$ redis-cli -h $REDIS_HOST -p $REDIS_PORT -a mysecretpassword
	172.99.78.231:32769> 
	```

	Now type in `PING` and you should see `PONG` come back. You should
	now have a functional Redis server requiring authentication. Now
	we'll set and get a key.

	```bash
	$ redis-cli -h 172.99.78.231 -p 32769 -a mysecretpassword set
	redis:on:carina true
	OK
	$ redis-cli -h 172.99.78.231 -p 32769 -a mysecretpassword get
	redis:on:carina
	"true"
	```

### Troubleshooting

If the status of the container does not begin with Up, check the logs as Redis'
official container logs to `stdout` by default.

```bash
$ docker logs $REDCON
```

This will tell you why Redis failed to start as well as other tidbits such as
whether THP support is enabled and any warnings about the kernel's
overcommit_memory settings.

See [Troubleshooting common problems](/docs/tutorials/troubleshooting/).

For additional assistance, ask the [community](https://community.getcarina.com/) for help or join us in IRC at [#carina on Freenode](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=carina).

### Resources

* [The Redis Quickstart](http://redis.io/topics/quickstart)
* [The Redis Security Guide](http://redis.io/topics/security)

### Next

If Redis isn't the data store for you, read [Use MongoDB on Carina](/docs/tutorials/data-stores-mongodb/).

Commit message:

Altered redis-cli to be run from a container
This addresses the valuable feedback about redis-cli not necessarily being installed locally to the reader's system. I also added some more verbiage around the set and get commands to make it more clear is was going on - as well as how to get out of the redis-cli session.

_tutorials/data-stores-redis.md, after:

---
title: Use Redis on Carina
author: Bill Anderson <bill.anderson@rackspace.com>
date: 2015-11-23
permalink: docs/tutorials/data-stores-redis/
description: Learn how to use Redis on Carina
docker-versions:
  - 1.9.0
topics:
  - docker
  - intermediate
  - data-stores
  - redis
---

This tutorial describes using Redis on Carina so you can store data in a container.

### Prerequisite

[Create and connect to a cluster](/docs/tutorials/create-connect-cluster/)


### A Primer on Redis Security

Redis is intended and designed to run on a secure intranet. As a result it does
not have certain features you might expect such as SSL or a User system. Redis
uses a single password or token to provide minimal authenticated access. As
there are no users there are no permissions other than you have access
or you do not. Best practice is to always use a password which you can
set either in the config file or via the command line. 

For SSL you have to run a proxy service such as Nginx or Stunnel. It
also requires you to use a client library which has added SSL support.
Running a Redis container with an SSL proxy means writing your own
Dockerfile to add an additional service as well as your generated SSL
certificates, and will be out of scope for this tutorial.

A final, if somewhat more drastic, step you can take is to rename certain
commands such as `CONFIG`. This is at it's core security through obscurity but
in a plain-text protocol with minimal authentication support it is an option to
consider. Note that tools such as Sentinel and the Jedis client library for
Java don't play well with renaming commands. For more information about
security and Redis check out the [The Redis Security
Guide](http://redis.io/topics/security)

### Run a Redis instance

Run a Redis instance to store your application data.


1. Run a Redis instance in a container from an official image using a
   password via the command line.

    ```bash
    $ docker run --detach --publish-all -m 1G redis \
	  redis-server --requirepass mysecretpassword \
	  --maxmemory 800M
    ```

	This `docker run` command will output the ID of your running Redis container.
	The `-m 1G` option specifies a reserved memory of 1GB. With Redis all data
	is in memory so you'll want to reserve some meory for the contaier and
	folow it up with a `maxmemory` setting to limit Redis' data memory
	allocation. In this case we selected 800Mb as the maxmemory value for Redis
	to provide 800M of data+client buffer space and 200M for Redis persistence
	requirements.

	Note that while you can change the password via the API, restarting the
	container will reset it to the password specified in the command line. If
	you want to manage the password via the API you can choose to not set one
	at the command line and then *immediately* set one via the API.

1. View the status of the container by using the `--latest` parameter.

    ```bash
    $ docker ps --latest
	CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND CREATED             STATUS              PORTS NAMES
	559d211c4cb1        redis               "/entrypoint.sh redis"   16 seconds ago      Up 6 seconds        172.99.78.231:32768->6379/tcp 7ffed4c5-fdcb-473d-8740-f133804b39a4-n1/amazing_mayer
    ```
    
	The status of the container should begin with Up. If it doesn't, see
	the [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section at the end of the
	tutorial.

1. View the ID of the container by using the `--quiet` parameter, store
   it in an environment variable for later use.

    ```bash
    $ REDCON=$(docker ps --quiet --latest)
	$ echo $REDCON
    54182185355c
    ```

	The output of this `docker ps` command is the shortened ID of the
	Redis container, we stored it in $REDCON for later use and echoed it out.

1. Discover what IP address and port Redis is running on by combining the `docker port` command, the ID of the container, and the default Redis port of 6379.

    ```bash
    $ docker port $REDCON 6379
    172.99.78.231:32769
    ```

	For the containerized Redis service, you don't need to keep track of
	what it's named, what IP address it runs on, or what port it uses.
	Instead, you discover this information dynamically with the
	preceding command, and use it later in the tutorial to connect to
	Redis. 
	
	To make this easier to use with `redis-cli` let us create a
	few more environment variables. We will user REDIS_HOST for the IP and
	REDIS_PORT for the port.

    ```bash
    $ REDIS_HOST=$(docker inspect --format '{{ (index (index .NetworkSettings.Ports "6379/tcp") 0).HostIp }}' $REDCON)
    $ REDIS_PORT=$(docker inspect --format '{{ (index (index .NetworkSettings.Ports "6379/tcp") 0).HostPort }}' $REDCON)
    $ echo $REDIS_HOST:$REDIS_PORT
    172.99.78.231:32769
    ```

	Now let us test our connection. To do this we will run redis-cli in it's own container as well. 
	For this we will still use the official Redis Docker image, we will simply be passing a 
	different command to it.

    ```bash
	$ run --interactive --tty  redis redis-cli  -h $REDIS_HOST -p $REDIS_PORT -a mysecretpassword 
	172.99.78.231:32769> 
	```

	Now type in `PING` and you should see `PONG` come back. You should
	now have a functional Redis server requiring authentication. Now
	we'll set and get a key. This we'll do using the the container call 
	directly. First, exit the existing redis-cli session by running the 
	`quit` command. You should no be back to your regular command line.
	
	Next up, let us set the key `redis:on:carina` to a value of "true".
	```bash
	$ run --interactive --tty  redis redis-cli  -h $REDIS_HOST \
	  -p $REDIS_PORT -a mysecretpassword  set redis:on:carina true
	OK
	```
	
	Now, `get` the key's value to see it was set.
	```bash
	$ run --interactive --tty  redis redis-cli  -h $REDIS_HOST \
	  -p $REDIS_PORT -a mysecretpassword  get redis:on:carina
	"true"
	```
	With this we have now connected to our password protected Redis container from a different 
	container and are able to execute commands against it.

### Troubleshooting

If the status of the container does not begin with Up, check the logs as Redis'
official container logs to `stdout` by default.

```bash
$ docker logs $REDCON
```

This will tell you why Redis failed to start as well as other tidbits such as
whether THP support is enabled and any warnings about the kernel's
overcommit_memory settings.

See [Troubleshooting common problems](/docs/tutorials/troubleshooting/).

For additional assistance, ask the [community](https://community.getcarina.com/) for help or join us in IRC at [#carina on Freenode](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=carina).

### Resources

* [The Redis Quickstart](http://redis.io/topics/quickstart)
* [The Redis Security Guide](http://redis.io/topics/security)

### Next

If Redis isn't the data store for you, read [Use MongoDB on Carina](/docs/tutorials/data-stores-mongodb/).
