_tutorials/docker-install-linux.md, before:

---
title: Install Docker on Linux
author: Nathaniel Archer <nate.archer@rackspace.com>
date: 2015-10-06
permalink: docs/tutorials/docker-install-linux/
description: Learn how to install Docker on Linux (Ubuntu, Debian)
topics:
  -docker
  -beginner
  -tutorial
---

This tutorial covers how to install and set up Docker on Linux distributions like Ubuntu and Debian.

###Prerequisite

A working Terminal application

###Install Docker
The following steps use Ubuntu. If you are not using Ubuntu, you can find installation instructions for your Linux distribution [here](https://docs.docker.com/installation/).

1. Log in to an Ubuntu installation as a user with `sudo` privileges.

2. Ensure that `wget` is installed.
   
  `which wget`

   If `wget` isn't installed, run the following commands:

   ```
   sudo apt-get update
   sudo apt-get install wget
   ```

3. Use `wget` to install the latest Docker package:

   `wget -qO- https://get.docker.com/ | sh`

   You are prompted to enter your `sudo` password. After you do so, Docker is downloaded and installed.

   **Note**: If your network is behind a filtering proxy, any `apt` commands might fail. To fix this, add an `apt-key` directly:

   `wget -qO- https://get.docker.com/gpg | sudo apt-key add -`

4. Check that `docker` is installed by running the following command:
   
   `docker run hello-world`

   The output should look as follows:

   ```
   $ docker run hello-world
   Unable to find image 'hello-world:latest' locally
   latest: Pulling from library/hello-world
   535020c3e8ad: Pull complete
   af340544ed62: Pull complete
   Digest: sha256:a68868bfe696c00866942e8f5ca39e3e31b79c1e50feaee4ce5e28df2f051d5c
   Status: Downloaded newer image for hello-world:latest


   Hello from Docker.
   This message shows that your installation appears to be working correctly.


   To generate this message, Docker took the following steps:
    1. The Docker client contacted the Docker daemon.
    2. The Docker daemon pulled the "hello-world" image from the Docker Hub.
    3. The Docker daemon created a new container from that image which runs the
    executable that produces the output you are currently reading.
    4. The Docker daemon streamed that output to the Docker client, which sent it
    to your terminal.


    To try something more ambitious, you can run an Ubuntu container with:
     $ docker run -it ubuntu bash


    Share images, automate workflows, and more with a free Docker Hub account:
     https://hub.docker.com


    For more examples and ideas, visit:
     https://docs.docker.com/userguide/


    To try something more ambitious, you can run an Ubuntu container with:
     $ docker run -it ubuntu bash


    For more examples and ideas, visit:
     https://docs.docker.com/userguide/
   ```

### Troubleshooting

If the `docker run hello-world` command fails, enter the following command:

   `sudo service docker start`

This command starts Docker and enables you to run any `docker` commands.

### Next step

[Set up your virtual environment with Docker host](docs/tutorials/set-up-docker-machine)

Commit message:

Steps for running docker without sudo

_tutorials/docker-install-linux.md, after:

---
title: Install Docker on Linux
author: Nathaniel Archer <nate.archer@rackspace.com>
date: 2015-10-06
permalink: docs/tutorials/docker-install-linux/
description: Learn how to install Docker on Linux (Ubuntu, Debian)
topics:
  -docker
  -beginner
  -tutorial
---

This tutorial covers how to install and set up Docker on Linux distributions like Ubuntu and Debian.

###Prerequisite

A working Terminal application

###Install Docker
The following steps use Ubuntu. If you are not using Ubuntu, you can find installation instructions for your Linux distribution [here](https://docs.docker.com/installation/).

1. Log in to an Ubuntu installation as a user with `sudo` privileges.

2. Ensure that `wget` is installed.

  `which wget`

   If `wget` isn't installed, run the following commands:

   ```
   sudo apt-get update
   sudo apt-get install wget
   ```

3. Use `wget` to install the latest Docker package:

   `wget -qO- https://get.docker.com/ | sh`

   You are prompted to enter your `sudo` password. After you do so, Docker is downloaded and installed.

   **Note**: If your network is behind a filtering proxy, any `apt` commands might fail. To fix this, add an `apt-key` directly:

   `wget -qO- https://get.docker.com/gpg | sudo apt-key add -`

4. Check that `docker` is installed by running the following command:

   `sudo docker run hello-world`

   The output should look as follows:

   ```
   $ docker run hello-world
   Unable to find image 'hello-world:latest' locally
   latest: Pulling from library/hello-world
   535020c3e8ad: Pull complete
   af340544ed62: Pull complete
   Digest: sha256:a68868bfe696c00866942e8f5ca39e3e31b79c1e50feaee4ce5e28df2f051d5c
   Status: Downloaded newer image for hello-world:latest


   Hello from Docker.
   This message shows that your installation appears to be working correctly.


   To generate this message, Docker took the following steps:
    1. The Docker client contacted the Docker daemon.
    2. The Docker daemon pulled the "hello-world" image from the Docker Hub.
    3. The Docker daemon created a new container from that image which runs the
    executable that produces the output you are currently reading.
    4. The Docker daemon streamed that output to the Docker client, which sent it
    to your terminal.


    To try something more ambitious, you can run an Ubuntu container with:
     $ docker run -it ubuntu bash


    Share images, automate workflows, and more with a free Docker Hub account:
     https://hub.docker.com


    For more examples and ideas, visit:
     https://docs.docker.com/userguide/


    To try something more ambitious, you can run an Ubuntu container with:
     $ docker run -it ubuntu bash


    For more examples and ideas, visit:
     https://docs.docker.com/userguide/
   ```

If you want to use the docker command without always prefixing it with sudo, follow
the instructions below. See [Docker daemon attack surface][daemon-security] for more information on
the security impacts of adding a user to the docker group.

1. Create a group named `docker` and add your user to it.

    ```bash
    sudo usermod -aG docker ubuntu
    ```

2. Restart the docker service.

    ```bash
    sudo service docker restart
    ```

3. Log out, then log in again so that your user is recognized as a member of the docker group.

4. Verify that you are able to execute docker commands without sudo.

    ```bash
    docker version
    ```

[daemon-security]: https://docs.docker.com/articles/security/#docker-daemon-attack-surface

### Troubleshooting

If the `docker run hello-world` command fails, enter the following command:

   `sudo service docker start`

This command starts Docker and enables you to run any `docker` commands.

### Next step

[Set up your virtual environment with Docker host](docs/tutorials/set-up-docker-machine)
