_best-practices/container-ecosystem-openshift.md, before:

---
title: Container ecosystem: OpenShift
author: Mike Metral <mike.metral@rackspace.com>
date: 2015-10-01
permalink: docs/best-practices/container-ecosystem-openshift/
description: Best practices for container ecosystems, powered by the Rackspace Container Service
topics:
  - best-practices
  - planning
---

*OpenShift can integrate with both OpenStack and Project Atomic, but OpenShift Enterprise may require top-to-bottom adoption of RedHat’s container and virtualization products.*

RedHat’s OpenShift has always been associated with managing your
applications at the Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) layer.
With three OpenShift offerings--OpenShift
Online, OpenShift Enterprise, and OpenShift Origin--RedHat aims to claim a
stake in various markets. 

### Three kinds of OpenShift

The differences between the three offerings are
best explained by identifying their primary purpose, which is either to compete
with more-established alternatives or to grow by attracting contributors:

- OpenShift Online [(1)](#resources) competes with
  Heroku [(2)](#resources) and Google App Engine [(3)](#resources).
- OpenShift Enterprise [(4)](#resources) competes with
  CloudFoundry [(5)](#resources).
- OpenShift Origin [(6)](#resources) is RedHat's open-source attempt at contributing to
  the community while
  benefiting from the enhancements that open source brings to the table.

### OpenShift and Kubernetes 

With Kubernetes really paving the way as the standard for container
orchestration in the Docker world, RedHat has taken the stance with
the newest release of OpenShift, version 3, to really focus, adopt
and build on Kubernetes. In doing so, RedHat is not only betting on
Kubernetes as the future of container orchestration, along with the
rest of the community, but they are allowing themselves to leverage
their Project Atomic, which is their preferred hosting platform for
Docker containers that competes with CoreOS.

To learn more about Kubernetes and other tools for container orchestration, read
[Container ecosystem: Kubernetes](/container-ecosystem-kubernetes/) and
[Introduction to container technologies: orchestration and management of container clusters](/container-technologies-orchestration-clusters/).

How OpenShift’s
adoption of Kubernetes plays out, especially in terms of
OpenShift's intent to be a wrapper for Kubernetes,
is sure to be an interesting story over the
in the long run of the “PaaS war”.

### OpenShift and OpenStack and Project Atomic

RedHat has stated that OpenShift is capable of integrating with both
OpenStack [(7)](#resources) and Project Atomic [(8)](#resources),
but given the nature of RedHat’s
previous business models, the OpenStack integration is most likely
inline with the intent of OpenShift Origin: to appease the open-source
community. It is possibile that considering OpenShift
Enterprise as a viable option for managing containers in a
mission-critical IT shop will require a full top-to-bottom
adoption of RedHat’s container and virtualization products, if both
types of workloads are aimed to be co-located. 

<a name="resources"></a>
### Resources

Numbered citations in this article:

1. <https://www.openshift.com/products/online>

2. <https://www.heroku.com/>

3. <https://cloud.google.com/appengine/docs>

4. <https://enterprise.openshift.com/>

5. <https://www.cloudfoundry.org/>

6. <https://www.openshift.org/>

7. <https://www.openstack.org/summit/openstack-summit-atlanta-2014/session-videos/presentation/openshift-the-state-of-the-art-paas-on-openstack>

8. <https://blog.openshift.com/openshift-v3-platform-combines-docker-kubernetes-atomic-and-more/>

Other recommended reading:

- [Container ecosystem: Kubernetes](/container-ecosystem-kubernetes/)

- [Introduction to container technologies: orchestration and management of container clusters](/container-technologies-orchestration-clusters/)

In addition to *best-practices* articles such as this one,
Rackspace Container Service documentation includes *tutorials* and *references*:

* For step-by-step demonstrations and instructions, explore the *tutorials* collection.
* For detailed information about how to solve specific issues or work with specific architectures,
  explore the *references* collection.
* For discussions of key ideas, recommendations of useful methods and tools, and
  general good advice, explore the *best-practices* collection.

### About the author

Mike Metral is a Product Architect at Rackspace. He works in the Private Cloud Product organization and is tasked with performing bleeding edge R&D and providing market analysis, design, and strategic advice in the container ecosystem. Mike joined Rackspace in 2012 as a Solutions Architect with the intent of helping OpenStack become the open standard for cloud management. At Rackspace, Mike has led the integration effort with strategic partner RightScale; aided in the assessment, development, and evolution of Rackspace Private Cloud; and served as the Chief Architect of the Service Provider Program. Prior to joining Rackspace, Mike held senior technical roles at Sandia National Laboratories, a subsidiary of Lockheed Martin, performing research and development in cybersecurity with regard to distributed systems, cloud, and mobile computing. Follow Mike on Twitter: @mikemetral.

Commit message:

incorporate editorial feedback
per https://github.com/rackerlabs/docs-container-service/pull/149/files#r41631279
& https://github.com/rackerlabs/docs-container-service/pull/149/files#r41631342
& https://github.com/rackerlabs/docs-container-service/pull/149/files#r41631436
& https://github.com/rackerlabs/docs-container-service/pull/149/files#r41631509
& https://github.com/rackerlabs/docs-container-service/pull/149/files#r41632371
& https://github.com/rackerlabs/docs-container-service/pull/149/files#r41632383 
& https://github.com/rackerlabs/docs-container-service/pull/149/files#r41632464
& https://github.com/rackerlabs/docs-container-service/pull/149/files#r41632561
& https://github.com/rackerlabs/docs-container-service/pull/149/files#r41632649
& https://github.com/rackerlabs/docs-container-service/pull/149/files#r41632701

skipping https://github.com/rackerlabs/docs-container-service/pull/149/files#r41631221: leaving section header in place to make key point visually obvious for "readers" who are only skimming

skipping https://github.com/rackerlabs/docs-container-service/pull/149/files#r41631047 
& https://github.com/rackerlabs/docs-container-service/pull/149/files#r41632767 
& https://github.com/rackerlabs/docs-container-service/pull/149/files#r41632837
as discussed previously

_best-practices/container-ecosystem-openshift.md, after:

---
title: Container ecosystem: OpenShift
author: Mike Metral <mike.metral@rackspace.com>
date: 2015-10-01
permalink: docs/best-practices/container-ecosystem-openshift/
description: Best practices for container ecosystems, powered by the Rackspace Container Service
topics:
  - best-practices
  - planning
---

*OpenShift can integrate with both OpenStack and Project Atomic, but OpenShift Enterprise may require top-to-bottom adoption of RedHat’s container and virtualization products.*

RedHat’s OpenShift has always been associated with managing your
applications at the Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) layer.
With three OpenShift offerings--OpenShift
Online, OpenShift Enterprise, and OpenShift Origin--RedHat aims to claim a
stake in various markets. 

### Three kinds of OpenShift

The differences between the three offerings are
best explained by identifying their primary purpose, which is either to compete
with more-established alternatives or to grow by attracting contributors:

- OpenShift Online [(1)](#resources) competes with
  Heroku [(2)](#resources) and Google App Engine [(3)](#resources).
- OpenShift Enterprise [(4)](#resources) competes with
  CloudFoundry [(5)](#resources).
- OpenShift Origin [(6)](#resources) is RedHat's open-source attempt at contributing to
  the community while
  benefiting from the enhancements that open source brings to the table.

### OpenShift and Kubernetes 

With Kubernetes paving the way as the standard for container
orchestration in the Docker world, RedHat's newest release of OpenShift, version 3, focuses on adopting
and building on Kubernetes. In doing so, RedHat is not only betting on
Kubernetes as the future of container orchestration, but they are also able to leverage
Project Atomic, their preferred hosting platform for
Docker containers that competes with CoreOS.

To learn more about Kubernetes and other tools for container orchestration, read
[Container ecosystem: Kubernetes](/container-ecosystem-kubernetes/) and
[Introduction to container technologies: orchestration and management of container clusters](/container-technologies-orchestration-clusters/).

### OpenShift, OpenStack, and Project Atomic

RedHat has stated that OpenShift is capable of integrating with both
OpenStack [(7)](#resources) and Project Atomic [(8)](#resources),
but given the nature of RedHat’s
previous business models, the OpenStack integration is most likely
inline with the intent of OpenShift Origin: to appease the open-source
community. As Diane Mueller explains [(7)](#resources), OpenShift Origin serves as the upstream source for OpenShift Enterprise, enabling integration that begins in OpenShift Origin to make its way to OpenShift Enterprise as the OpenShift team deems appropriate. 

It is possible that considering OpenShift
Enterprise for managing containers in a
mission-critical IT shop will require a full top-to-bottom
adoption of RedHat’s container and virtualization products, if both
types of workloads will be co-located. 

<a name="resources"></a>
### Resources

Numbered citations in this article:

1. <https://www.openshift.com/products/online>

2. <https://www.heroku.com/>

3. <https://cloud.google.com/appengine/docs>

4. <https://enterprise.openshift.com/>

5. <https://www.cloudfoundry.org/>

6. <https://www.openshift.org/>

7. <https://www.openstack.org/summit/openstack-summit-atlanta-2014/session-videos/presentation/openshift-the-state-of-the-art-paas-on-openstack>

8. <https://blog.openshift.com/openshift-v3-platform-combines-docker-kubernetes-atomic-and-more/>

Other recommended reading:

- [Container ecosystem: Kubernetes](/container-ecosystem-kubernetes/)

- [Introduction to container technologies: orchestration and management of container clusters](/container-technologies-orchestration-clusters/)

In addition to *best-practices* articles such as this one,
Rackspace Container Service documentation includes *tutorials* and *references*:

* For step-by-step demonstrations and instructions, explore the *tutorials* collection.
* For detailed information about how to solve specific issues or work with specific architectures,
  explore the *references* collection.
* For discussions of key ideas, recommendations of useful methods and tools, and
  general good advice, explore the *best-practices* collection.

### About the author

Mike Metral is a Product Architect at Rackspace. He works in the Private Cloud Product organization and is tasked with performing bleeding edge R&D and providing market analysis, design, and strategic advice in the container ecosystem. Mike joined Rackspace in 2012 as a Solutions Architect with the intent of helping OpenStack become the open standard for cloud management. At Rackspace, Mike has led the integration effort with strategic partner RightScale; aided in the assessment, development, and evolution of Rackspace Private Cloud; and served as the Chief Architect of the Service Provider Program. Prior to joining Rackspace, Mike held senior technical roles at Sandia National Laboratories, a subsidiary of Lockheed Martin, performing research and development in cybersecurity with regard to distributed systems, cloud, and mobile computing. Follow Mike on Twitter: @mikemetral.
