_best-practices/docker-best-practices-container-linking.md, before:

---
title: 'Docker best practices: container linking'
author: Mike Metral <mike.metral@rackspace.com>
date: 2015-10-01
permalink: docs/best-practices/docker-best-practices-container-linking/
description: Docker best practices, powered by the Rackspace Container Service
docker-versions:
topics:
  - best-practices
  - planning
---

*Avoid container linking; use a service registration and discovery tool instead.*

Docker has a concept known as “linking” that allows you to connect
containers via a socket or through a hostname using a sender and
recipient model. Links can also be used to leverage service discovery
between containers. Links work by having the client
container use Docker's private networking interface to
access an exposed port in another server container.

### Links create a tunnel

For example, to link a MySQL database backend server named `mysql_server` to a client container named `webapp`:

1. Start the database server, `mysql_server`, from a stored image named `mysql`:

    `docker run -d --name mysql_server mysql`

2. Create the client container, `webapp`, with a link to the serving container, `mysql_server`,
   assigned an alias of `db` and enabled to run the bash shell:

    `docker run -t -i --name webapp --link mysql_server:db /bin/bash`

With links forming a secure tunnel between the containers,
the client is allowed to access data on the serving container.

Connectivity information is exposed to the client
in environmental variables and via a host entry for
the source container in the `/etc/hosts` file [(1)](#resources).

In the environmental variables, the client will see information
such as the following:

    DB_NAME=/webapp/db
    DB_PORT=tcp://172.17.0.5:3306
    DB_PORT_3306_TCP=tcp://172.17.0.5:3306
    DB_PORT_3306_TCP_PROTO=tcp
    DB_PORT_3306_TCP_PORT=3306
    DB_PORT_3306_TCP_ADDR=172.17.0.5



### Issues with linking

As potentially useful as linking seems, its drawbacks become clear when you begin to think of linking
containers across different hosts as well as how much of an ephemeral
lifecycle a particular container can hold.

Some problems and needs which are not addressed by links include:

- Service discovery suffers from the static nature of linking.

- Links are volatile. IP addresses, port mappings, and link names can
  change as the result of manipulating a link, and other containers
  are not notified of these changes nor can they trivially deal with
  these issues [(2)](#resources).

- Links work only for containers hosted on the same node; 
  the [ambassador pattern](#ambassador), sometimes offered as a solution for this, does not fully address the limitation.

Environmental variables in linking are exposed in a convoluted manner:
before you can use environmental variables to tell you what the interface and port *are*,
you must know know the services's intended interface and the port.
For example, if you need
to know the name of the protocol being used, you must first know that the environmental variable identifying it is named
`DB_PORT_3306_TCP_PROTO`; the `TCP` in the variable name is sufficient to determine that the protocol in use is TCP.

Also, once you discover the environmental variables, you’ll have to
parse the various strings for each connection to compose the full
connection information, so you may as well just have a single
environment variable containing all information about hosts, ports, and interfaces,
such as the following:

    DB_NAME=/web2/db
    DB_PORTS=tcp://172.17.0.5:3306,udp://172.17.0.5: 3306

With such complications, it becomes difficult to use linked containers in
many situations.

<a name="ambassador"></a>
### Ambassador pattern: linking through a proxy

With the *ambassador* pattern, you can define container links 
between a server and client container to be handled through a proxy. This separate proxy
container, the ambassador, transparently redirects connections based on parameters. Lucas Carlson explains this as each container acting as its own country, with each country represented by its own local ambassador who is empowered to speak through the network to another country's foreign ambassador:
>  (container) –> (local ambassador) –network–> (foreign ambassador) –> (container) [(3)](#resources).

However, because ambassador containers themselves depend on links, they
are exposed to linking's issues, primarily that linking is disrupted when one of the linked containers fails.

Use of the ambassador pattern has dwindled in popularity as it does not necessarily add any benefit
that links don’t already provide, and it further complicates the
architecture without solving the underlying issues at hand.

### Alternative to linking: service discovery

The stability and benefits of linking
are not ready to be integrated into
mission-critical, production-grade stacks.
Container links do not make it easy for the developer to
interact with linked server and client containers without detailed
foreknowledge of the connection itself. 

An alternative to container linking that is becoming an industry standard is to use a
service registration and discovery tool. If all the services that are available to your containers are known (registered) and can easily be located (discovered), there is no need to define specific links between services in multiple containers. You can read more about this at
[Introduction to container technologies: registration and discovery of container services](/container-technologies-registration-discover/).

<a name="resources"></a>
### Resources

Numbered citations in this article:

1. <https://docs.docker.com/userguide/dockerlinks/>

2. <https://github.com/docker/docker/issues/7467>

3. <https://labs.ctl.io/deploying-multi-server-docker-apps-with-ambassadors/>

Other recommended reading:

- [Introduction to container technologies: registration and discovery of container services](/container-technologies-registration-discover/)

In addition to *best-practices* articles such as this one,
Rackspace Container Service documentation includes *tutorials* and *references*:

* For step-by-step demonstrations and instructions, explore the *tutorials* collection.
* For detailed information about how to solve specific issues or work with specific architectures,
  explore the *references* collection.
* For discussions of key ideas, recommendations of useful methods and tools, and
  general good advice, explore the *best-practices* collection.

### About the author

Mike Metral is a Product Architect at Rackspace. He works in the Private Cloud Product organization and is tasked with performing bleeding edge R&D and providing market analysis, design, and strategic advice in the container ecosystem. Mike joined Rackspace in 2012 as a Solutions Architect with the intent of helping Openstack become the open standard for cloud management. At Rackspace, Mike has led the integration effort with strategic partner Rightscale, aided in the assessment, development, and evolution of Rackspace Private Cloud, and served as the Chief Architect of the Service Provider Program. Prior to joining Rackspace, Mike held senior technical roles at Sandia National Laboratories, a subsidiary of Lockheed Martin, performing research and development in cybersecurity with regard to distributed systems, cloud, and mobile computing. Follow Mike on Twitter: @mikemetral.

Commit message:

incorporate editorial feedback, part 1
per https://github.com/rackerlabs/docs-container-service/pull/239/files#r42527956 
& https://github.com/rackerlabs/docs-container-service/pull/239/files#r42528787
& https://github.com/rackerlabs/docs-container-service/pull/239/files#r42529527
& https://github.com/rackerlabs/docs-container-service/pull/239/files#r42529800

_best-practices/docker-best-practices-container-linking.md, after:

---
title: 'Docker best practices: container linking'
author: Mike Metral <mike.metral@rackspace.com>
date: 2015-10-01
permalink: docs/best-practices/docker-best-practices-container-linking/
description: Docker best practices, powered by the Rackspace Container Service
docker-versions:
topics:
  - best-practices
  - planning
---

*Use a service registration and discovery tool instead of Docker container linking.*

Docker has a concept known as *linking* that allows you to connect
containers via a socket or through a hostname using a sender and
recipient model. Links can also be used to leverage service discovery
between containers. Links work by having the client
container use Docker's private networking interface to
access an exposed port in another server container.

### Links create a tunnel

For example, to link a MySQL database backend server named `mysql_server` to a client container named `webapp`:

1. Start the database server, `mysql_server`, from a stored image named `mysql`:

    `docker run -d --name mysql_server mysql`

2. Create the client container, `webapp`, with a link to the serving container, `mysql_server`,
   assigned an alias of `db` and enabled to run the bash shell:

    `docker run -t -i --name webapp --link mysql_server:db /bin/bash`

With links forming a secure tunnel between the containers,
the client is allowed to access data on the serving container.

Connectivity information is exposed to the client
in environmental variables and via a host entry for
the source container in the `/etc/hosts` file [(1)](#resources).

In the environmental variables, the client will see information
such as the following:

```
DB_NAME=/webapp/db
DB_PORT=tcp://172.17.0.5:3306
DB_PORT_3306_TCP=tcp://172.17.0.5:3306
DB_PORT_3306_TCP_PROTO=tcp
DB_PORT_3306_TCP_PORT=3306
DB_PORT_3306_TCP_ADDR=172.17.0.5`
```

### Issues with linking

As potentially useful as linking seems, its drawbacks become clear when you begin to think of linking
containers across different hosts as well as how much of an ephemeral
lifecycle a particular container can hold.

Some problems and needs which are not addressed by links include:

- Service discovery among linked containers relies on static sources of links information:
  environmental variables and `/etc/hosts` files.
  In a configuration with large numbers of ephemeral containers,
  maintaining static information about their links is impractical.

- Links are volatile. IP addresses, port mappings, and link names can
  change as the result of manipulating a link, and other containers
  are not notified of these changes nor can they trivially deal with
  these issues [(2)](#resources).

- Links work only for containers hosted on the same node; 
  the [ambassador pattern](#ambassador), sometimes offered as a solution for this, does not fully address the limitation.

Environmental variables in linking are exposed in a convoluted manner:
before you can use environmental variables to tell you what the interface and port *are*,
you must know know the services's intended interface and the port.
For example, if you need
to know the name of the protocol being used, you must first know that the environmental variable identifying it is named
`DB_PORT_3306_TCP_PROTO`; the `TCP` in the variable name is sufficient to determine that the protocol in use is TCP.

Also, once you discover the environmental variables, you’ll have to
parse the various strings for each connection to compose the full
connection information, so you may as well just have a single
environment variable containing all information about hosts, ports, and interfaces,
such as the following:

```
DB_NAME=/web2/db
DB_PORTS=tcp://172.17.0.5:3306,udp://172.17.0.5: 3306
```

With such complications, it becomes difficult to use linked containers in
many situations.

<a name="ambassador"></a>
### Ambassador pattern: linking through a proxy

With the *ambassador* pattern, you can define container links 
between a server and client container to be handled through a proxy. This separate proxy
container, the ambassador, transparently redirects connections based on parameters. Lucas Carlson explains this as each container acting as its own country, with each country represented by its own local ambassador who is empowered to speak through the network to another country's foreign ambassador:
>  (container) –> (local ambassador) –network–> (foreign ambassador) –> (container) [(3)](#resources).

However, because ambassador containers themselves depend on links, they
are exposed to linking's issues, primarily that linking is disrupted when one of the linked containers fails.

Use of the ambassador pattern has dwindled in popularity as it does not necessarily add any benefit
that links don’t already provide, and it further complicates the
architecture without solving the underlying issues at hand.

### Alternative to linking: service discovery

The stability and benefits of linking
are not ready to be integrated into
mission-critical, production-grade stacks.
Container links do not make it easy for the developer to
interact with linked server and client containers without detailed
foreknowledge of the connection itself. 

An alternative to container linking that is becoming an industry standard is to use a
service registration and discovery tool. If all the services that are available to your containers are known (registered) and can easily be located (discovered), there is no need to define specific links between services in multiple containers. You can read more about this at
[Introduction to container technologies: registration and discovery of container services](/container-technologies-registration-discover/).

<a name="resources"></a>
### Resources

Numbered citations in this article:

1. <https://docs.docker.com/userguide/dockerlinks/>

2. <https://github.com/docker/docker/issues/7467>

3. <https://labs.ctl.io/deploying-multi-server-docker-apps-with-ambassadors/>

Other recommended reading:

- [Introduction to container technologies: registration and discovery of container services](/container-technologies-registration-discover/)

In addition to *best-practices* articles such as this one,
Rackspace Container Service documentation includes *tutorials* and *references*:

* For step-by-step demonstrations and instructions, explore the *tutorials* collection.
* For detailed information about how to solve specific issues or work with specific architectures,
  explore the *references* collection.
* For discussions of key ideas, recommendations of useful methods and tools, and
  general good advice, explore the *best-practices* collection.

### About the author

Mike Metral is a Product Architect at Rackspace. He works in the Private Cloud Product organization and is tasked with performing bleeding edge R&D and providing market analysis, design, and strategic advice in the container ecosystem. Mike joined Rackspace in 2012 as a Solutions Architect with the intent of helping Openstack become the open standard for cloud management. At Rackspace, Mike has led the integration effort with strategic partner Rightscale, aided in the assessment, development, and evolution of Rackspace Private Cloud, and served as the Chief Architect of the Service Provider Program. Prior to joining Rackspace, Mike held senior technical roles at Sandia National Laboratories, a subsidiary of Lockheed Martin, performing research and development in cybersecurity with regard to distributed systems, cloud, and mobile computing. Follow Mike on Twitter: @mikemetral.
