---
title: Kubernetes 101
author: Jamie Hannaford <jamie.hannaford@rackspace.com>
date: 2016-11-07
permalink: docs/concepts/kubernetes-101/
description: Introduction to Kubernetes, how Kubernetes is used with Carina, and instructions on how to use
kubernetes-versions:
  - 1.4.4
topics:
  - kubernetes
  - beginner
---

This tutorial explains the basic components of Kubernetes and provides a starting place for using Kubernetes.

### What is Kubernetes?

Kubernetes is an open-source platform for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications across clusters. It groups containers that make up an application into logical units for easy management and discovery.

Kubernetes offers the following features:

* Container scheduling based on resource requirements
* Horizontal scaling
* Automated rollouts and rollbacks
* Storage orchestration
* Self-healing
* Service discovery and load balancing
* Secret and configuration management
* Batch execution

### How does Kubernetes work?

Kubernetes manages the orchestration of Docker containers in groups called *pods*. It relies on an API to perform all of its scheduling and resource management. When a client performs an operation, such as a create or get request, the client communicates with an API service. All states for the cluster are saved in a key-value database. The scheduler is responsible for allocating resources to available node instances.

Kubernetes supports many different resource type operations, ranging from pods to secrets. For more information about these resources, see our [Zero-to-Hero guide for Kubernetes]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/kubernetes-zero-to-hero).

### Kubernetes components

Kubernetes is distributed over two types of instances: *masters* and *nodes*. Master instances manage and schedule applications onto nodes, which are responsible for hosting only. To perform their duties, each instance type is installed with different services. This section introduces each system component.

#### Master components

* `etcd`: A distributed key-value store that is used to persist the state of the cluster. It is made available to node instances as a
configuration store, allowing them to configure themselves according to the live state of the cluster, such as for service discovery.

* `kube-apiserver`: A REST API that handles client requests and persists the state of the cluster to the etcd store. It provides security features like  authentication, RBAC and TLS to ensure that the cluster state is modified securely.

* `kube-controller-manager`: A service that manages and enforces the state of all API resources. It watches etcd for resource changes and implements the procedure necessary for a state change, such as increasing the number of replicas in a Replica Set.

* `kube-scheduler`: A service that coordinates and schedules all units of work (such as Pods) to available nodes. The service calculates the resource requirements for a potential scheduling job, analyzes the current cluster for availability (ensuring, for example, that nodes do not exceed hardware capacity), and selects an appropriate node.

#### Node components

* `kubelet`: A service that starts, stops, and manages pods. It communicates with master components to receive work and perform actions on received manifests.

* `kube-proxy`: A proxy service that runs on each node and forwards packets to the correct containers and provides service-level load balancing for pods.

### Cluster components

After the master and node instances are configured, a selection of Kubernetes pods are installed to help you get started.

These pods include the `kube-dns` service, which is a DNS server integrated with etcd to resolve service names into internal cluster IP addresses. This allows pods to refer to other pods through their service names.

The pods are installed under the `kube-system` namespace and are visible when you run the following command:

```bash
kubectl --namespace=kube-system get pods
```

Many of these system components are installed as *DaemonSet resources*, which are pods that run on every node.

### Kubernetes and Carina

Carina installs and configures Kubernetes onto clusters according to the standards and recommendations set out in the community. But in order to guarantee the security and privacy of our customers, we make a few configuration changes that are described below.

#### Persistent volumes

Kubernetes on Carina does not support `PersistentVolume` resources for now.

#### Resource concentration

To concentrate resources as much as possible, the first instance in a cluster functions both as a master and a node by default. Each subsequent instance that is added to the cluster serves as a node only.

Future infrastructure configurations will allow for dedicated master instances.

#### Privileged containers

Running pod containers in privileged mode is disabled.

#### Configuration files

During the cluster creation process, Carina generates the following configuration
files for you to use in your local development environment. They are bundled
in a zip file.

- `kubectl.config`
- `kubectl.env`
- `kubectl.ps1`
- `kubectl.cmd`
- `kubectl.fish`

For instructions for downloading and using configuration files, see [Create and Connect to a Cluster](docs/getting-started/create-connect-cluster/).

#### TLS configuration

When a Kubernetes cluster is provisioned, the following TLS certificates are
generated on the master instance:

- `ca.pem` and `ca-cert.pem`
- `apiserver.pem` and `apiserver-key.pem`
- `admin.pem` and `admin-key.pem`
- `node.pem` and `node-key.pem`
- `user.pem` and `user-key.pem`

These certificates enable communication between cluster components to operate securely over TLS.
The [configuration files](#configuration-files) use these certificates to configure the Kubernetes client (`kubectl`) to connect to a cluster.

#### Port ranges for NodePort services

By default, Kubernetes allows `NodePort` services to operate only on the port range 30000-32767. Carina, however, allows your Kubernetes services to use all ports. As a result, you can set up a web application and use ports 80 and 443 on the host, instead of having to use a high port number like 30000.

Port 6443 is currently reserved and cannot be used by applications.

#### SSH access

SSH access is disabled for hosts in a Kubernetes cluster.

### Next steps

* [Create a Kubernetes cluster with the Carina CLI]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/getting-started/create-kubernetes-cluster-with-cli/)
* [Create a Kubernetes cluster with the Carina UI]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/getting-started/create-kubernetes-cluster/)
