---
title: Carina FAQ
author: Simon J <simon.jakesch@rackspace.com>
date: 2015-10-26
permalink: docs/faq/
description: Miscellaneous questions related to Carina
topics:
  - troubleshooting
  - docker
  - Carina
---

#### I am an existing Rackspace customer, can I use Carina with my existing account?

> Yes absolutely, simply use your Rackspace username (the same you use for the normal cloud control panel) to sign into Carina. The beta will also be free to you, just like everyone else.


#### I've got some feedback or questions where can I go for this?

> Please note that during the beta period Carina is supported through [community forms](https://community.getcarina.com/) and [IRC at #carina on Freenode](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=carina).


#### I've found a bug, where can I go to report it?
> We're very happy to receive bug reports from you. If the bug is security related please refer to our [Security Vulnerability Reporting Guidelines](http://www.rackspace.com/information/legal/rsdp/)


#### Can I use this for production workloads?

> We're still working hard to add new features to Carina. As a result, there may be some changes we have to make 
> to the environment. Most changes won't impact your running clusters/containers. We will **never delete
> your clusters or your containers**. However, we still advise against using Carina for
> production workloads at the moment. One thing you can do to ensure your application stays up is simply start your containers with `--restart always`. This will ensure they'll restart after a node or host restart.


#### What happens when there is a new version of Docker?

> We currently support Docker 1.8 and Swarm 0.4.0. Once a new version of Docker is released we'll test it in our environement. Thereafter we'll make it available in Carina, at which point any new cluster build will use the newer version. __Running clusters however won't be upgraded by default__, so you will have to redeploy your application into a new cluster in order to take advantage of the newer version.


#### You mentioned something about auto-scaling, how does that work?

> Yes, Carina currently does offer simple scale-up capabilities. For more details see [the Autoscaling Carina tutorial](docs/tutorials/autoscaling-carina/).

#### What does the cluster rebuild action do?

> As explained under ["how" in the overview article](/docs/overview-of-carina/#how-does-carina-work), Carina currently relies on Swarm to manage the placement of containers. Swarm relies on management containers. Should you accidentially delete these containers your Swarm cluster won't work properly anymore. This is where you can use the rebuild action to re-initialize the Swarm cluster. Rebuilding will interupt/kill your interactive container sessions. However, backgounded/daemonized containers will continue running and remain untouched.


#### What kind of resources does a single cluster/Swarm have?

> All cluster segments currently have 4GB of memory and roughly the equivalent of two vCPUs. As a result, a single **Docker container can never grow larger than 4GB of memory**. Clusters currently have a maximum of three segments for a total of six vCPUs and 16GB or memory. By default users can create a maximum of three clusters, if you have a use-case which requires more resources please contact us directly. Once we go into production these parameters will be configurable, but we're currently limiting them to accomodate everyone on this footprint.


#### Can I get access to the underlying segment?

> Direct access to the underlying segment (LXC container) won't be given to users. Carina is a "zero-infrastrucutre" container service, we'll take care of running the underlying bits, so you can focus on running your application.


#### Why can't my containers talk to each other?

> Containers on the same segment should simply be "linked" together, see [Connect containers with Docker links](/docs/tutorials/connect-docker-containers-with-links/#connect-two-containers-with-a-docker-link) to find out more. If your containers live on different segments you'll have to rely on the [Ambassador pattern described here.](/docs/tutorials/connect-docker-containers-ambassador-pattern/#connect-containers) 


#### When will Carina go into production?

> We're not rushing to put Carina into production. We'd like to collect feedback, add more features as well as orchestration engines. As soon as we have more detail on production readyness dates we'll let you know. 


#### Will Carina be free forever? What will it cost? When will you start charging?

> First, we'd like to clear up a potential suspicion. We're not trying to run a "bait-and-switch" campaing with this service -- to create an open environment is most import to us. While Carina won't be free forever, we will continue to keep a free-tier, even after we start charging. As soon as we have pricing details we will make them public, so you can educate yourself way before we start charging -- you'll  be positively surprised.


#### When I run `docker info` against my Swarm there are already containers running there, why?

> Docker Swarm requires an agent and manager to work. They currently run on cluster segment in the form of containers.
> While there's only one manager required per cluster, we've decided to configure it to run everywhere to add some
> redundancy and to not worry the user about where to connect when communicating with the cluster. For more detail see the [how section](/docs/overview-of-carina/#how-does-carina-work)


#### Is there an API for all this?

> Yes, we have an API, but be warned that it __will__ be changing before we move into production. If you want to get started using it, start by using the CLI tooling's code base, see [Getting Started with the Carina CLI](/docs/getting-started/getting-started-carina-cli/#download-and-install-carina-cli)


####  How are you currently preventing <code>--privileged</code>?

> AppArmor profiles at the compute host level deny certain capabilities and permissions that Docker needs for <code>--privileged</code>. When Docker tries to spawn a privileged container, AppArmor denies it. For more details [see here](/docs/tutorials/docker-swarm-carina/#apparmor-profiles).


#### What level of control do I get over segment networking? How do I allocate IPs?

> Currently Carina controls all the networking for you. Every segment is simply allocated a public IPv4 address, which makes connectivity very easy, but should be kept in mind when deploying Docker containers that expose services publicly.


#### What granular controls will I get over compute resource provisioning?

> We are as granular as our Nova flavors allow. We will eventually expose the flavor in the create cluster call. 


#### Can I get access to the TLS Certs?

> All of the certs necessary to talk to the docker daemon or swarm manager are on each node. You can access them by using `--volumes-from swarm-data:ro`. You'll find them in `/etc/docker`. We don't have the local Unix socket, but you can easily talk over a TCP socket with `--net=host`. These run arguments should set everything up.

> *__Note__*: on some versions of the docker client, using `--volumes-from swarm-data:ro` may fail with permission denied due to a bug. In this case, you can leave off the `:ro` suffix, but be warned, this will mount the volume with read/write capabilities.

> Talk to swarm:
<code>--net=host --volumes-from swarm-data:ro -e DOCKER_HOST=tcp://127.0.0.1:2376 -e DOCKER_CERT_PATH​=/etc/docker -e DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY=1</code>

> Talk to local daemon:
<code>--net=host --volumes-from swarm-data:ro -e DOCKER_HOST=tcp://127.0.0.1:42376 -e DOCKER_CERT_PATH​=/etc/docker -e DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY=1​</code>


#### I may have accidentally crashed one or more of my Swarm service containers. What should I do?

> A `rebuild` action is available on the Swarm Management page. Selecting this will rebuild the Swarm service containers from scratch and should restore functionality to your cluster.


#### My credentials work with Cloud Control Panel, but not here. What's wrong?

> If you're an existing Rackspace customer you can simply use your non-email Rackspace account to sign into Carina. Please note, however, that **we don't support two-factor authentication at the moment**. To work around this, you can create a sub-user. For help doing this, you can follow [this guide](https://community.rackspace.com/products/f/54/t/4551) .
