_getting-started/2015-10-24-carina-cli.md, before:

---
title: Getting started with the Carina CLI
author: Anne Gentle <anne.gentle@rackspace.com>
date: 2015-10-24
featured: true
permalink: docs/getting-started/getting-started-carina-cli/
description: Learn how to get started with the Carina command-line client (CLI) by installing, configuring, and performing commands
topics:
  - carina
  - cli
  - intermediate
---

This tutorial demonstrates how to install and configure the Carina client so that you can use it to launch and control Docker Swarm clusters on a Carina endpoint. The `carina` command-line interface (CLI) is a self-contained binary written in Go, so installation involves downloading a binary, making it executable, adding it to your path, and then configuring it with credentials.

No prior knowledge of containers or Docker is necessary. This tutorial works on Linux, Mac, and Windows.

**Note**: This guide uses the command-line interface to create a cluster. To use the graphical user interface, see [Getting started on Carina]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/getting-started/getting-started-on-carina/).

### Sign up for Carina

To run applications on Carina, create a free account (no credit card required) by following the [sign up process](https://app.getcarina.com/app/signup).

Note your Carina API key. To get it, go to the [Carina Control Panel](https://app.getcarina.com), click your username in the top-right corner, and then click **API Key**.

### Download and install the CLI

To download and install the `carina` CLI, use the appropriate instructions for your operating system.

Open an application in which to run commands.

* On Linux and Mac OS X, open a terminal.
* On Windows, open a PowerShell.

#### OS X with Homebrew

If you're using [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/), run the following commands:

```bash
$ brew update
$ brew install carina
```

#### Linux and OS X without Homebrew

Downloads for the latest release of `carina` are available in [releases](https://github.com/getcarina/carina/releases/latest) for 64-bit Linux and OS X. You can use `curl` to download the binary, move it to a directory on your `$PATH`, and make it executable:

```bash
$ curl -L https://download.getcarina.com/carina/latest/$(uname -s)/$(uname -m)/carina -o carina
$ mv carina ~/bin/carina
$ chmod u+x ~/bin/carina
```

#### Windows with Chocolatey

If you are using [Chocolatey](http://chocolatey.org/), run the following command:

```powershell
> choco install carina
```

#### Windows without Chocolatey

Downloads for the latest release of `carina` are available in [releases](https://github.com/getcarina/carina/releases/latest). For quick installation, open PowerShell and run the following command:

```powershell
> wget 'https://download.getcarina.com/carina/latest/Windows/x86_64/carina.exe' -OutFile carina.exe
```

Be sure to move `carina.exe` to a directory on your `%PATH%`.

### Configure with Carina credentials

1. Gather the required information:
  * Username (CARINA_USERNAME): Your Carina username from the [Carina Control Panel](https://app.getcarina.com), displayed at the top right. In many cases, your username is your email address.
  * API key (CARINA_APIKEY): Your Carina API key. To find it, see [Sign up for Carina](#sign-up-for-carina).

2. Set your environment variables to contain these credentials. For example:

    On Linux and Mac OS X terminals, run the following commands:

    ```bash
    $ export CARINA_USERNAME=fnamelname
    $ export CARINA_APIKEY=ddd1233abcdef4a0bc5da6789123ab45c
    ```

    On Windows PowerShell, run the following commands:

    ```powershell
    > $env:CARINA_USERNAME="fnamelname"
    > $env:CARINA_APIKEY="ddd1233abcdef4a0bc5da6789123ab45c"
    ```

3. Verify that you can issue `carina` commands:

    ```bash
    $ carina ls
    ClusterName         Flavor              Nodes               AutoScale           Status
    test                container1-4G       1                   false               active
    ```

    The output is your list of clusters, if you already have some clusters already running.

### Create and connect to your cluster

1. Create a Carina cluster by using the `carina create` command.

    The `--wait` flag will wait for Swarm cluster to be active before returning.

    ```bash
    $ carina create --wait mycluster
    ClusterName         Flavor              Nodes               AutoScale           Status
    mycluster           container1-4G       1                   false               active
    ```

1. Configure your shell to connect to your cluster.

    On Linux and Mac OS X terminals, run the following commands:

    ```bash
    $ eval $(carina env mycluster)
    ```

    On Windows PowerShell, run the following commands:

    ```powershell
    > carina env --shell powershell mycluster | iex
    ```

{% include getting-started.md %}

### Next steps

Learn about all of the features available to you in the [Overview of Carina]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/overview-of-carina/).

Try another one of our [tutorials]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/#tutorials).

Commit message:

Use placeholder values for credentials
Follow our convention for placeholder values in code, instead of the confusing fnamelname hardcoded value.

_getting-started/2015-10-24-carina-cli.md, after:

---
title: Getting started with the Carina CLI
author: Anne Gentle <anne.gentle@rackspace.com>
date: 2015-10-24
featured: true
permalink: docs/getting-started/getting-started-carina-cli/
description: Learn how to get started with the Carina command-line client (CLI) by installing, configuring, and performing commands
topics:
  - carina
  - cli
  - intermediate
---

This tutorial demonstrates how to install and configure the Carina client so that you can use it to launch and control Docker Swarm clusters on a Carina endpoint. The `carina` command-line interface (CLI) is a self-contained binary written in Go, so installation involves downloading a binary, making it executable, adding it to your path, and then configuring it with credentials.

No prior knowledge of containers or Docker is necessary. This tutorial works on Linux, Mac, and Windows.

**Note**: This guide uses the command-line interface to create a cluster. To use the graphical user interface, see [Getting started on Carina]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/getting-started/getting-started-on-carina/).

### Sign up for Carina

To run applications on Carina, create a free account (no credit card required) by following the [sign up process](https://app.getcarina.com/app/signup).

Note your Carina API key. To get it, go to the [Carina Control Panel](https://app.getcarina.com), click your username in the top-right corner, and then click **API Key**.

### Download and install the CLI

To download and install the `carina` CLI, use the appropriate instructions for your operating system.

Open an application in which to run commands.

* On Linux and Mac OS X, open a terminal.
* On Windows, open a PowerShell.

#### OS X with Homebrew

If you're using [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/), run the following commands:

```bash
$ brew update
$ brew install carina
```

#### Linux and OS X without Homebrew

Downloads for the latest release of `carina` are available in [releases](https://github.com/getcarina/carina/releases/latest) for 64-bit Linux and OS X. You can use `curl` to download the binary, move it to a directory on your `$PATH`, and make it executable:

```bash
$ curl -L https://download.getcarina.com/carina/latest/$(uname -s)/$(uname -m)/carina -o carina
$ mv carina ~/bin/carina
$ chmod u+x ~/bin/carina
```

#### Windows with Chocolatey

If you are using [Chocolatey](http://chocolatey.org/), run the following command:

```powershell
> choco install carina
```

#### Windows without Chocolatey

Downloads for the latest release of `carina` are available in [releases](https://github.com/getcarina/carina/releases/latest). For quick installation, open PowerShell and run the following command:

```powershell
> wget 'https://download.getcarina.com/carina/latest/Windows/x86_64/carina.exe' -OutFile carina.exe
```

Be sure to move `carina.exe` to a directory on your `%PATH%`.

### Configure with Carina credentials

1. Gather the required information:
  * Username (CARINA_USERNAME): Your Carina username from the [Carina Control Panel](https://app.getcarina.com), displayed at the top right. In many cases, your username is your email address.
  * API key (CARINA_APIKEY): Your Carina API key. To find it, see [Sign up for Carina](#sign-up-for-carina).

2. Set your environment variables to contain these credentials. Replace `<username>` with your Carina username and `<apikey>` with your Carina password.

    On Linux and Mac OS X terminals, run the following commands:

    ```bash
    $ export CARINA_USERNAME=<username>
    $ export CARINA_APIKEY=<apikey>
    ```

    On Windows PowerShell, run the following commands:

    ```powershell
    > $env:CARINA_USERNAME="<username>"
    > $env:CARINA_APIKEY="<apikey>"
    ```

3. Verify that you can issue `carina` commands:

    ```bash
    $ carina ls
    ClusterName         Flavor              Nodes               AutoScale           Status
    test                container1-4G       1                   false               active
    ```

    The output is your list of clusters, if you already have some clusters already running.

### Create and connect to your cluster

1. Create a Carina cluster by using the `carina create` command.

    The `--wait` flag will wait for Swarm cluster to be active before returning.

    ```bash
    $ carina create --wait mycluster
    ClusterName         Flavor              Nodes               AutoScale           Status
    mycluster           container1-4G       1                   false               active
    ```

1. Configure your shell to connect to your cluster.

    On Linux and Mac OS X terminals, run the following commands:

    ```bash
    $ eval $(carina env mycluster)
    ```

    On Windows PowerShell, run the following commands:

    ```powershell
    > carina env --shell powershell mycluster | iex
    ```

{% include getting-started.md %}

### Next steps

Learn about all of the features available to you in the [Overview of Carina]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/overview-of-carina/).

Try another one of our [tutorials]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/#tutorials).
