_getting-started/2016-03-08-python-web-app-dev.md, before:

---
title: Develop a Python web application
author: Everett Toews <everett.toews@rackspace.com>
date: 2016-03-08
permalink: docs/tutorials/develop-a-python-web-application/
description: Develop a Python web application locally on VirtualBox and deploy it on Carina
docker-versions:
  - 1.10.1
topics:
  - docker
  - intermediate
---

This tutorial describes how to develop a Python web application locally on VirtualBox and deploy it on Carina with Docker Compose.

The application you're going to develop is a simple guestbook. It's enough to demonstrate a basic 3 tier app. To develop the application you'll be using the following technologies:

* Nginx for the load balancer
* For the app server:
 * Python for the programming language
 * Flask for the web framework
 * Gunicorn for the WSGI server
* MySQL for the database

This is what the final result of moving your application from VirtualBox to Carina will look like.

![Python Web App Development]({% asset_path python-web-app-dev/pythonwebapp.png %})

### Prerequisites

* [Create and connect to a cluster]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/create-connect-cluster/)
* [Install Docker Toolbox](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-toolbox)
 * On Windows during installation, check the "Git for Windows" option for easy access to `git` from the Docker Quickstart Terminal.
* [Sign up for an account on Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/)

### Clone the repo

Use `git` to clone the repo that contains all of the Compose files and application code you need.

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/getcarina/examples.git carina-examples
Cloning into 'carina-examples'...
remote: Counting objects: 325, done.
remote: Compressing objects: 100% (49/49), done.
remote: Total 325 (delta 11), reused 0 (delta 0), pack-reused 273
Receiving objects: 100% (325/325), 54.60 KiB | 0 bytes/s, done.
Resolving deltas: 100% (114/114), done.
Checking connectivity... done.
```

### Development on VirtualBox

You'll be using Docker on VirtualBox as your local development environment. This was installed as part of the Docker Toolbox, see the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites).

![VirtualBox]({% asset_path python-web-app-dev/virtualbox.png %})

#### Initialize the environment

1. When you open the Docker Quickstart Terminal for the first time, it should create a default VM. You can confirm this with the `docker-machine` command.

    ```bash
    $ docker-machine create --driver virtualbox default
    Host already exists: "default"

    $ docker-machine ls
    NAME             ACTIVE   DRIVER       STATE     URL                         SWARM                   DOCKER    ERRORS
    default          -        virtualbox   Running   tcp://192.168.99.100:2376                           v1.10.2
    ```

    If the default VM wasn't already created, the `docker-machine create` command will create it.

1. Source the environment for the default VM.

    ```bash
    $ eval "$(docker-machine env default)"

    $ env | grep DOCKER
    DOCKER_HOST=tcp://192.168.99.100:2376
    DOCKER_MACHINE_NAME=default
    DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY=1
    DOCKER_CERT_PATH=/Users/everett/.docker/machine/machines/default
    ```

    The environment variables that were sourced into your environment configure the `docker` command line interface (CLI) to communicate with the default VM running a Docker Engine.

#### Run the application

1. Use the `docker-compose` command to run all of the services that make up the application.

    ```bash
    $ cd carina-examples/python-web-app

    $ docker-compose up
    Creating network "pythonwebapp_default" with the default driver
    Creating network "pythonwebapp_backend" with the default driver
    Building app
    Step 1 : FROM python:3.4
    ...
    app_1                | DEBUG: Welcome to Carina Guestbook
    app_1                | DEBUG: The log statement below is for educational purposes only. Do *not* log credentials.
    app_1                | DEBUG: mysql+pymysql://guestbook-admin:my-guestbook-admin-password@pythonwebapp_db/guestbook
    pythonwebapp_db_data exited with code 0
    db_1                 | Initializing database
    ...
    db_1                 | 2016-03-08 03:36:46 1 [Note] mysqld: ready for connections.
    db_1                 | Version: '5.6.29'  socket: '/var/run/mysqld/mysqld.sock'  port: 3306  MySQL Community Server (GPL)
    ```

    The output is interleaved log messages from the services you started. As you do you development, you can refer back to this terminal to see how the services react to your development and testing.

1. Open another terminal.

    ```bash
    $ eval "$(docker-machine env default)"
    ```

1. Initialize the database.

    Use `docker-compose` to run the `create_db` function from your app to initialize the database.

    ```bash
    $ cd carina-examples/python-web-app

    $ docker-compose run -d --rm --no-deps app python app.py create_db
    pythonwebapp_app_run_1
    ```

1. View the application.

    ```bash
    $ docker-machine ip default
    192.168.99.100
    ```

    You can view the application site by copying and pasting the IP address into your web browser address bar.

#### Change the application

1. Open `app/templates/index.html` for editing. Change "Guest" to "Ghost" everywhere with a case-sensitive find and replace.

1. Reload your web browser.

1. When you're ready to shutdown the application, use Ctrl+C in the terminal where you ran `docker-compose`.

### Deployment on Carina

You'll be using Docker Swarm cluster on Carina as your production deployment environment. This was created as part of creating and connecting to a cluster, see the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites).

When you are satisfied with your development and testing in your local development environment, you can run your application on Carina to share it with the world.

![Carina]({% asset_path python-web-app-dev/carina.png %})

#### Initialize the environment

1. Open a new terminal.

    If you used the GUI to create your cluster, source the environment variables with these commands.

    ```bash
    $ cd Downloads/mycluster

    $ source docker.env
    ```

    **Note**: On Windows, adjust the `DOCKER_CERT_PATH` to use the proper file path separators. For example, `export DOCKER_CERT_PATH=C:\\Users\\everett\\Downloads\\mycluster`

    If you used the `carina` CLI to create your cluster, source the environment variables with this commands.

    ```bash
    $ eval $(carina env mycluster)
    ```

1. Check your environment

    ```bash
    $ env | grep DOCKER
    DOCKER_HOST=tcp://104.130.0.205:2376
    DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY=1
    DOCKER_CERT_PATH=/Users/everett/.carina/clusters/everett/mycluster
    DOCKER_VERSION=1.10.1
    ```

    The environment variables that were sourced into your environment configure the `docker` CLI to communicate with your Carina cluster.

#### Build the images

To be able to pull your application images to every segment on your cluster, you first need to push them to Docker Hub. Your `<docker-hub-username>` was created as part of signing up for an account on Docker Hub, see the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites).

1. Login to Docker Hub

    ```bash
    $ docker login
    Username: <docker-hub-username>
    Password:
    WARNING: login credentials saved in /Users/everett/.docker/config.json
    Login Succeeded

    $ export DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME=<docker-hub-username>
    ```

    **Note**: On Windows, specify all of the information immediately for the `docker login` command. For example, `docker login -u <docker-hub-username> -p <docker-hub-password> -e email@example.com`

<a id="build-and-push-images"></a>

1. Build and push the images

    ```bash
    $ cd carina-examples/python-web-app

    $ declare -a images=(app db lb)

    $ for image in "${images[@]}" ; do
        IMAGE_NAME=pythonwebapp_${image}
        docker build -t ${DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME}/${IMAGE_NAME} ${image}
        docker push ${DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME}/${IMAGE_NAME}
      done
    Sending build context to Docker daemon 13.31 kB
    Step 1 : FROM python:3.4
    ...
    latest: digest: sha256:defc0818f08cfa04fada7bfdd917a93054c833fd6c9142dc3c941689c78967e7 size: 7850
    ```

    The output is the result of pushing your images to Docker Hub. You can view the images online at https://hub.docker.com/u/<docker-hub-username>/

#### Run the application

1. Set environment variables to configure MySQL.

    ```bash
    echo "MYSQL_USER=guestbook-admin" > pythonwebapp-mysql-prod.env
    echo "MYSQL_PASSWORD=my-random-password" >> pythonwebapp-mysql-prod.env
    echo "MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=my-random-root-password" > pythonwebapp-mysql-root-prod.env
    ```

    These environment variables are written to `env` files so they can be reused in the future.

<a id="docker-compose-up"></a>

1. Use the `docker-compose up` command to run the application. The `--file` flag is used to specify the production environment and the `-d` flag is used to detach from the run so closing your terminal does not kill the application.

    ```bash
    $ docker-compose --file docker-compose-prod.yml up -d
    Creating network "pythonwebapp_default" with the default driver
    Creating network "pythonwebapp_backend" with the default driver
    Creating pythonwebapp_app_1
    Creating pythonwebapp_lb
    Creating pythonwebapp_db_data
    Creating pythonwebapp_db
    ```

    No log messages are interleaved because you detached from the run.

    To check log messages use the commands `docker logs pythonwebapp_app_1`, `docker logs pythonwebapp_db`, or `docker logs pythonwebapp_lb`.

1. Initialize the database.

    Use `docker-compose` to run the `create_db` function from your app to initialize the database.

    ```bash
    $ docker-compose --file docker-compose-prod.yml run -d --rm --no-deps app python app.py create_db
    pythonwebapp_app_run_1
    ```

1. View the application.

    ```bash
    $ docker port pythonwebapp_lb 80
    104.130.0.205:80
    ```

    You can view the application site by copying and pasting the IP address into your web browser address bar.

#### Change the application

If you change the application in your development environment and you want to see those changes in your production environment, you need to rebuild your images and rerun your containers.

1. Open `app/templates/index.html` for editing. Change "Ghost" back to "Guest" everywhere with a case-sensitive find and replace.

1. [Build and push the images](#build-and-push-images). You only need to build and push the images you've changed.

1. [Use the `docker-compose up` command to run the application](#docker-compose-up).

1. Reload your web browser.

### More actions on services

Use the following commands to work with your services once they're running. Run `docker-compose` to see a full list of subcommands. Here are a number of useful subcommands.

1. `docker-compose ps` - List services.

1. `docker-compose stop` - Stop services.

1. `docker-compose down` - Stop and remove containers, networks, images, and volumes. **Note**: This will *delete all of your data*.

1. `docker rmi pythonwebapp_lb pythonwebapp_app pythonwebapp_db` - Remove all images.

### Troubleshooting

See [Troubleshooting common problems]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/troubleshooting/common-problems/).

For additional assistance, ask the [community](https://community.getcarina.com/) for help or join us in IRC at [#carina on Freenode](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=carina).

### Resources

* [Overview of Carina]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/overview-of-carina/)
* [Use data volume containers]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/data-volume-containers/)
* [Use overlay networks in Carina]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/overlay-networks/)
* [Nginx](https://www.nginx.com/)

### Next steps

Store your data outside of a container by [Connecting a Carina container to a Rackspace MySQL Cloud Database]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/data-stores-mysql-prod/)

Acquire free TLS certificates using [NGINX with Let's Encrypt]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/nginx-with-lets-encrypt/) and use them to secure your application.

Commit message:

Better instructions for the Quickstart Terminal

_getting-started/2016-03-08-python-web-app-dev.md, after:

---
title: Develop a Python web application
author: Everett Toews <everett.toews@rackspace.com>
date: 2016-03-08
permalink: docs/tutorials/develop-a-python-web-application/
description: Develop a Python web application locally on VirtualBox and deploy it on Carina
docker-versions:
  - 1.10.2
topics:
  - docker
  - intermediate
---

This tutorial describes how to develop a Python web application locally on VirtualBox and deploy it on Carina with Docker Compose.

The application you're going to develop is a simple guestbook. It's enough to demonstrate a basic 3 tier app. To develop the application you'll be using the following technologies:

* Nginx for the load balancer
* For the app server:
 * Python for the programming language
 * Flask for the web framework
 * Gunicorn for the WSGI server
* MySQL for the database

This is what the final result of moving your application from VirtualBox to Carina will look like.

![Python Web App Development]({% asset_path python-web-app-dev/pythonwebapp.png %})

### Prerequisites

* [Install Docker Toolbox](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-toolbox)
* [Create and connect to a cluster]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/create-connect-cluster/)
 * On Windows during installation, check the "Git for Windows" option for easy access to `git` from the Docker Quickstart Terminal.
* [Sign up for an account on Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/)

### Clone the repo

Use `git` to clone the repo that contains all of the Compose files and application code you need.

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/getcarina/examples.git carina-examples
Cloning into 'carina-examples'...
remote: Counting objects: 325, done.
remote: Compressing objects: 100% (49/49), done.
remote: Total 325 (delta 11), reused 0 (delta 0), pack-reused 273
Receiving objects: 100% (325/325), 54.60 KiB | 0 bytes/s, done.
Resolving deltas: 100% (114/114), done.
Checking connectivity... done.
```

### Development on VirtualBox

You'll be using Docker on VirtualBox as your local development environment. This was installed as part of the Docker Toolbox, see the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites).

![VirtualBox]({% asset_path python-web-app-dev/virtualbox.png %})

#### Initialize the environment

1. When you open the Docker Quickstart Terminal for the first time, it should create a default VM. You can confirm this with the `docker-machine` command.

    ```bash
    $ docker-machine create --driver virtualbox default
    Host already exists: "default"

    $ docker-machine ls
    NAME             ACTIVE   DRIVER       STATE     URL                         SWARM                   DOCKER    ERRORS
    default          -        virtualbox   Running   tcp://192.168.99.100:2376                           v1.10.2
    ```

    If the default VM wasn't already created, the `docker-machine create` command will create it.

1. Source the environment for the default VM.

    ```bash
    $ eval "$(docker-machine env default)"

    $ env | grep DOCKER
    DOCKER_HOST=tcp://192.168.99.100:2376
    DOCKER_MACHINE_NAME=default
    DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY=1
    DOCKER_CERT_PATH=/Users/everett/.docker/machine/machines/default
    ```

    The environment variables that were sourced into your environment configure the `docker` command line interface (CLI) to communicate with the default VM running a Docker Engine.

#### Run the application

1. Use the `docker-compose` command to run all of the services that make up the application.

    ```bash
    $ cd carina-examples/python-web-app

    $ docker-compose up
    Creating network "pythonwebapp_default" with the default driver
    Creating network "pythonwebapp_backend" with the default driver
    Building app
    Step 1 : FROM python:3.4
    ...
    app_1                | DEBUG: Welcome to Carina Guestbook
    app_1                | DEBUG: The log statement below is for educational purposes only. Do *not* log credentials.
    app_1                | DEBUG: mysql+pymysql://guestbook-admin:my-guestbook-admin-password@pythonwebapp_db/guestbook
    pythonwebapp_db_data exited with code 0
    db_1                 | Initializing database
    ...
    db_1                 | 2016-03-08 03:36:46 1 [Note] mysqld: ready for connections.
    db_1                 | Version: '5.6.29'  socket: '/var/run/mysqld/mysqld.sock'  port: 3306  MySQL Community Server (GPL)
    ```

    The output is interleaved log messages from the services you started. As you do you development, you can refer back to this terminal to see how the services react to your development and testing.

1. Open another terminal.

    ```bash
    $ eval "$(docker-machine env default)"
    ```

1. Initialize the database.

    Use `docker-compose` to run the `create_db` function from your app to initialize the database.

    ```bash
    $ cd carina-examples/python-web-app

    $ docker-compose run -d --rm --no-deps app python app.py create_db
    pythonwebapp_app_run_1
    ```

1. View the application.

    ```bash
    $ docker-machine ip default
    192.168.99.100
    ```

    You can view the application site by copying and pasting the IP address into your web browser address bar.

#### Change the application

1. Open `app/templates/index.html` for editing. Change "Guest" to "Ghost" everywhere with a case-sensitive find and replace.

1. Reload your web browser.

1. When you're ready to shutdown the application, use Ctrl+C in the terminal where you ran `docker-compose`.

### Deployment on Carina

You'll be using Docker Swarm cluster on Carina as your production deployment environment. This was created as part of creating and connecting to a cluster, see the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites).

When you are satisfied with your development and testing in your local development environment, you can run your application on Carina to share it with the world.

![Carina]({% asset_path python-web-app-dev/carina.png %})

#### Initialize the environment

1. Open a new terminal and initialize as per the instructions for the [Quickstart Termainal]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/create-connect-cluster/#quickstart-terminal)

1. Check your environment

    ```bash
    $ env | grep DOCKER
    DOCKER_HOST=tcp://104.130.0.205:2376
    DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY=1
    DOCKER_CERT_PATH=/Users/everett/.carina/clusters/everett/mycluster
    DOCKER_VERSION=1.10.2
    ```

    The environment variables that were sourced into your environment configure the `docker` CLI to communicate with your Carina cluster.

#### Build the images

To be able to pull your application images to every segment on your cluster, you first need to push them to Docker Hub. Your `<docker-hub-username>` was created as part of signing up for an account on Docker Hub, see the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites).

1. Login to Docker Hub

    ```bash
    $ docker login
    Username: <docker-hub-username>
    Password:
    WARNING: login credentials saved in /Users/everett/.docker/config.json
    Login Succeeded

    $ export DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME=<docker-hub-username>
    ```

<a id="build-and-push-images"></a>

1. Build and push the images

    ```bash
    $ cd carina-examples/python-web-app

    $ declare -a images=(app db lb)

    $ for image in "${images[@]}" ; do
        IMAGE_NAME=pythonwebapp_${image}
        docker build -t ${DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME}/${IMAGE_NAME} ${image}
        docker push ${DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME}/${IMAGE_NAME}
      done
    Sending build context to Docker daemon 13.31 kB
    Step 1 : FROM python:3.4
    ...
    latest: digest: sha256:defc0818f08cfa04fada7bfdd917a93054c833fd6c9142dc3c941689c78967e7 size: 7850
    ```

    The output is the result of pushing your images to Docker Hub. You can view the images online at https://hub.docker.com/u/<docker-hub-username>/

#### Run the application

1. Set environment variables to configure MySQL.

    ```bash
    echo "MYSQL_USER=guestbook-admin" > pythonwebapp-mysql-prod.env
    echo "MYSQL_PASSWORD=my-random-password" >> pythonwebapp-mysql-prod.env
    echo "MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=my-random-root-password" > pythonwebapp-mysql-root-prod.env
    ```

    These environment variables are written to `env` files so they can be reused in the future.

<a id="docker-compose-up"></a>

1. Use the `docker-compose up` command to run the application. The `--file` flag is used to specify the production environment and the `-d` flag is used to detach from the run so closing your terminal does not kill the application.

    ```bash
    $ docker-compose --file docker-compose-prod.yml up -d
    Creating network "pythonwebapp_default" with the default driver
    Creating network "pythonwebapp_backend" with the default driver
    Creating pythonwebapp_app_1
    Creating pythonwebapp_lb
    Creating pythonwebapp_db_data
    Creating pythonwebapp_db
    ```

    No log messages are interleaved because you detached from the run.

    To check log messages use the commands `docker logs pythonwebapp_app_1`, `docker logs pythonwebapp_db`, or `docker logs pythonwebapp_lb`.

1. Initialize the database.

    Use `docker-compose` to run the `create_db` function from your app to initialize the database.

    ```bash
    $ docker-compose --file docker-compose-prod.yml run -d --rm --no-deps app python app.py create_db
    pythonwebapp_app_run_1
    ```

1. View the application.

    ```bash
    $ docker port pythonwebapp_lb 80
    104.130.0.205:80
    ```

    You can view the application site by copying and pasting the IP address into your web browser address bar.

#### Change the application

If you change the application in your development environment and you want to see those changes in your production environment, you need to rebuild your images and rerun your containers.

1. Open `app/templates/index.html` for editing. Change "Ghost" back to "Guest" everywhere with a case-sensitive find and replace.

1. [Build and push the images](#build-and-push-images). You only need to build and push the images you've changed.

1. [Use the `docker-compose up` command to run the application](#docker-compose-up).

1. Reload your web browser.

### More actions on services

Use the following commands to work with your services once they're running. Run `docker-compose` to see a full list of subcommands. Here are a number of useful subcommands.

1. `docker-compose ps` - List services.

1. `docker-compose stop` - Stop services.

1. `docker-compose down` - Stop and remove containers, networks, images, and volumes. **Note**: This will *delete all of your data*.

1. `docker rmi pythonwebapp_lb pythonwebapp_app pythonwebapp_db` - Remove all images.

### Troubleshooting

See [Troubleshooting common problems]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/troubleshooting/common-problems/).

For additional assistance, ask the [community](https://community.getcarina.com/) for help or join us in IRC at [#carina on Freenode](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=carina).

### Resources

* [Overview of Carina]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/overview-of-carina/)
* [Use data volume containers]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/data-volume-containers/)
* [Use overlay networks in Carina]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/overlay-networks/)
* [Nginx](https://www.nginx.com/)

### Next steps

Store your data outside of a container by [Connecting a Carina container to a Rackspace MySQL Cloud Database]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/data-stores-mysql-prod/)

Acquire free TLS certificates using [NGINX with Let's Encrypt]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/tutorials/nginx-with-lets-encrypt/) and use them to secure your application.
