_getting-started/2016-10-31-create-kubernetes-cluster-with-cli.md, before:

---
title: Getting started with Kubernetes and the Carina CLI
author: Carolyn Van Slyck <carolyn.vanslyck@rackspace.com>
date: 2016-10-31
featured: true
permalink: docs/getting-started/create-kubernetes-cluster-with-cli/
description: Learn how to get started with the Carina command-line client (CLI) by installing, configuring, and performing commands
docker-versions:
  - 1.11.2
kubernetes-versions:
  - 1.4.5
topics:
  - carina
  - cli
  - beginner
---

This tutorial demonstrates how to install and configure the Carina client so that you can use it to launch and control Carina clusters from the command line. No prior knowledge of containers, Docker, or Kubernetes is necessary.

**Note**: This tutorial uses the command-line interface to create a cluster. To use the website, see [Getting started with Kubernetes]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/getting-started/create-kubernetes-cluster/).

### Sign up for Carina

To run applications on Carina, create a free account (no credit card required) by following the [sign up process](https://app.getcarina.com/app/signup).

Note your Carina API key. To view your API key, go to the [Carina Control Panel](https://app.getcarina.com), click your username in the top-right corner, and then click **Settings**.

### Install the Carina CLI
{% include install-carina.md %}

### Install the Kubernetes client
{% include install-kubectl.md %}

### Configure with Carina credentials

1. Gather the required information:
  * Username (CARINA_USERNAME): Your Carina username from the [Carina Control Panel](https://app.getcarina.com), displayed at the top right. In many cases, your username is your email address.
  * API key (CARINA_APIKEY): Your Carina API key. To find it, see [Sign up for Carina](#sign-up-for-carina).

2. Set your environment variables to contain these credentials. Replace `<username>` with your Carina username and `<apikey>` with your Carina API key.

    On Linux and Mac OS X terminals, run the following commands:

    ```bash
    $ export CARINA_USERNAME=<username>
    $ export CARINA_APIKEY=<apiKey>
    ```

    On Windows PowerShell, run the following commands:

    ```powershell
    > $env:CARINA_USERNAME="<username>"
    > $env:CARINA_APIKEY="<apiKey>"
    ```

3. Verify that you can run `carina` commands:

    ```bash
    $ carina clusters
    ID                                      Name        Status    Template                  Nodes
    9f320718-e0b6-4687-9c43-0e0c39eba9e2    mycluster   active    Kubernetes 1.4.4 on LXC   1
    ```

    The output is your list of clusters, if you already have some clusters running.

### Create and connect to your cluster

1. Create a Kubernetes cluster by running the `carina create` command.
   The `--wait` flag indicates to wait for the cluster to become active before exiting.

    ```bash
    $ carina create --wait --template "Kubernetes 1.4.4 on LXC" mycluster
    ID                                      Name        Status    Template                  Nodes
    9f320718-e0b6-4687-9c43-0e0c39eba9e2    mycluster   active    Kubernetes 1.4.4 on LXC   1
    ```

1. Configure your shell to connect to your cluster.

    On Linux and Mac OS X terminals, run the following commands:

    ```bash
    $ eval $(carina env mycluster)
    ```

    On Windows PowerShell, run the following commands:

    ```powershell
    > carina env mycluster --shell powershell  | iex
    ```

1. Connect to your cluster and display information about it.

    ```bash
    $ kubectl cluster-info
    Kubernetes master is running at https://172.99.125.8
    KubeDNS is running at https://172.99.125.8/api/v1/proxy/namespaces/kube-system/services/kube-dns

    To further debug and diagnose cluster problems, use 'kubectl cluster-info dump'.
    ```

{% include getting-started-with-kubernetes.md %}

### Next steps

Learn about all of the features available to you in the [Overview of Carina]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/overview-of-carina/).

Try another one of our [tutorials]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/#tutorials).

Commit message:

Update Getting Started with Kubernetes and the Carina CLI

_getting-started/2016-10-31-create-kubernetes-cluster-with-cli.md, after:

---
title: Getting started with Kubernetes and the Carina CLI
author: Carolyn Van Slyck <carolyn.vanslyck@rackspace.com>
date: 2016-10-31
featured: true
permalink: docs/getting-started/create-kubernetes-cluster-with-cli/
description: Learn how to use the command line to get your first containerized application running on Kubernetes in a minimal amount of time
kubernetes-versions:
  - 1.4.5
topics:
  - carina
  - cli
  - beginner
---

This tutorial demonstrates how to use the command line to get your first containerized application running on Kubernetes in a minimal amount of time. No prior knowledge of containers, or Kubernetes is necessary.

**Note**: This tutorial uses the command-line interface to create a cluster. To use the website, see [Getting started with Kubernetes]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/getting-started/create-kubernetes-cluster/).

### Sign up for Carina

To run applications on Carina, create a free account (no credit card required) by following the [sign up process](https://app.getcarina.com/app/signup).

Note your Carina API key. To view your API key, go to the [Carina Control Panel](https://app.getcarina.com), click your username in the top-right corner, and then click **Settings**.

### Install the Carina CLI
{% include install-carina.md %}

### Install the Kubernetes client
{% include install-kubectl.md %}

### Configure with Carina credentials

1. Gather the required information:
  * Username (CARINA_USERNAME): Your Carina username from the [Carina Control Panel](https://app.getcarina.com), displayed at the top right. In many cases, your username is your email address.
  * API key (CARINA_APIKEY): Your Carina API key. To find it, see [Sign up for Carina](#sign-up-for-carina).

2. Set your environment variables to contain these credentials. Replace `<username>` with your Carina username and `<apikey>` with your Carina API key.

    On Linux and Mac OS X terminals, run the following commands:

    ```bash
    $ export CARINA_USERNAME=<username>
    $ export CARINA_APIKEY=<apiKey>
    ```

    On Windows PowerShell, run the following commands:

    ```powershell
    > $env:CARINA_USERNAME="<username>"
    > $env:CARINA_APIKEY="<apiKey>"
    ```

3. Verify that you can run `carina` commands:

    ```bash
    $ carina clusters
    ID                                      Name        Status    Template                  Nodes
    9f320718-e0b6-4687-9c43-0e0c39eba9e2    mycluster   active    Kubernetes 1.4.4 on LXC   1
    ```

    The output is your list of clusters, if you already have some clusters running.

### Create and connect to your cluster

A cluster is a pool of compute, storage, and networking resources that serves as a host for one or more containerized applications.

1. View the available cluster templates with `carina templates`.

    ```bash
    $ carina templates
    Name                     COE         Host
    Kubernetes 1.4.4 on LXC  kubernetes  lxc
    Swarm 1.11.2 on LXC      swarm       lxc
    ```

1. Create a Kubernetes cluster by running the `carina create` command, using a template name from the previous step.

    ```bash
    $ carina create --wait --template "Kubernetes 1.4.4 on LXC" mycluster
    ID                                      Name        Status    Template                  Nodes
    9f320718-e0b6-4687-9c43-0e0c39eba9e2    mycluster   active    Kubernetes 1.4.4 on LXC   1
    ```

    The `--wait` flag indicates that the client should wait for the cluster to become active before exiting.

1. Configure the Kubernetes client (`kubectl`).

    On Linux and Mac OS X terminals, run the following commands:

    ```bash
    $ eval $(carina env mycluster)
    ```

    On Windows PowerShell, run the following commands:

    ```powershell
    > carina env mycluster --shell powershell  | iex
    ```

1. Use `kubectl` to connect to your cluster and display information about it.

    ```bash
    $ kubectl cluster-info
    Kubernetes master is running at https://172.99.125.8
    KubeDNS is running at https://172.99.125.8/api/v1/proxy/namespaces/kube-system/services/kube-dns

    To further debug and diagnose cluster problems, use 'kubectl cluster-info dump'.
    ```

{% include getting-started-with-kubernetes.md %}

### Next steps

Learn about all of the features available to you in the [Overview of Carina]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/overview-of-carina/).

Try another one of our [tutorials]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/#tutorials).
